Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, and what challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Properties and behavior of niobium oxides as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane ODH: Bridging theoretical predictions and experimental challenges'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. Optimal yields are observed at 15% Nb due to reduced active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Long-term stability studies show deactivation attributed to NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry reduction and NiNb2O6 phase formation. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is crucial for efficiency. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations must reconcile the complex catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species. However, high Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods significantly impact the structural and catalytic properties of NbNiO nanocomposites, suggesting potential for further optimization. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% but reduce ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction characteristics. This complex behavior presents challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two phases: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6, enhancing ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Defect reduction in NiO correlates with high selectivity due to the formation of electrophilic oxygen species. Challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations arise from unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, effectively substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen radicals and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, as evidenced by NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity (90%). The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The extra positive charge in the NiO lattice, proportional to dopant valence, reduces oxygen species and increases ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of Nb2O5 and NbO, and the oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide, which varies with its environment, affect reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, influencing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. However, the presence of oxygen complicates the system. The method of catalyst preparation is crucial, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts enhance chemical activity. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants, observed in calculations and experiments, aligns with trends in CH bond breaking and reducibility. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising. Computation models are approximate due to the lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology and composition. To bridge models and experiments, calculations on surfaces with defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly affect their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium reduces the activation energy and eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, favoring ethane conversion to ethylene. The ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, leading to distinct oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces active sites, making diffusion the rate-determining step and promoting nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Studying these systems presents challenges due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and facilitates CH bond activation. Lattice contraction occurs with niobium incorporation, affecting the lattice constant up to a certain Nb/Ni ratio. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. Substitution of niobium for nickel causes charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ holes in NiO. O2-TPD experiments show niobium suppresses ethane's total oxidation, enhancing selective ethylene conversion. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping contributes to high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. Ni0.85Nb0.15O yields optimal results due to reduced active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Long-term stability studies show continuous deactivation, attributed to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. Catalyst regeneration attempts were unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by modifying redox properties, limiting NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting NiO reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covering unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species of NiO enhances selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Optimizing the catalyst preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. These findings highlight the challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. The substitution of niobium cations into the NiO lattice decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, leading to lower unselective oxygen species and improved ethane ODH activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased selectivity to ethylene, as seen in NiNb with 90% selectivity. Non-stoichiometric oxygen in Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. High valence doped NiO exhibits less mobile oxygen species, which are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between 16O exchange and C2H6 consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, significantly impact their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The high energy of formation of Nb2O5 and the stability of NbO contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide can vary, affecting its reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base due to its unused electrons, which can increase the binding of surface oxygen atoms and hinder oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen in the gas phase, the behavior becomes complex. The properties of Nb oxide clusters formed on the surface are not well understood, and the kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some Nb-doped catalysts over time. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts the performance of the doped catalysts, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations is also seen in experiments. The strong dependence on the method of preparation is surprising, and it is unclear whether this dependence is practically important. Doping generally improves the catalytic activity of oxides, as shown by both computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing activation energy and electrophilic oxygen species, favoring ethylene production over CO2. The reaction follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen levels, while niobium doping reduces these sites, promoting diffusion and nucleophilic oxygen species, selective for ethylene. Theoretical predictions struggle to match experimental observations due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts boost ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium's incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, inhibits crystallization, and modifies acidity, peaking at a specific Nb/Ni ratio. This acidity is linked to NiONb bond formation, confirmed by XRD data. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. It acts as an electron donor, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation, and promoting selective ethene conversion. The upper limit of Nb5+ dissolution and the inhibition of crystallization at high Nb loading are noted. Niobium's substitution for nickel introduces charge imbalance, significantly altering mixed NiNbO oxide properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), active sites become more active but less numerous, increasing ethylene selectivity. Optimal activity is seen at 15% Nb (Ni0.85Nb0.15O), where the amorphous Nb2O5 phase prevents sintering and decreases active phase particle size. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing activity. Long-term stability studies show a continuous decrease in activity due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and inhibiting reducibility. This leads to less active but more selective catalysts. The Nb-rich phase covers unselective, non-stoichiometric active oxygen species of NiO, enhancing selectivity. However, high Nb loadings cause significant deactivation due to close interaction and possible restructuration under ODH conditions. The most efficient catalysts contain 3-4 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation method impacts the structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for further optimization. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations presents challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. This highlights the complexity in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This phase formation, influenced by Nb's reaction with cationic vacancies, correlates with high ethylene selectivity due to reduced structural defects. Challenges in studying these systems arise from unpredictable non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, demonstrating that higher dopant valence leads to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and the high energy of formation of Nb2O5 contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base, Nb increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts. Preparation methods significantly affect performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. Doping reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental trends. The strong dependence on preparation methods is surprising, and computational models are approximate due to the lack of detailed experimental methods. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is exploratory, but the results are promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium reduces the activation energy and exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating nonstoichiometric electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but surface oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Studying these systems presents challenges due to non-linear kinetic parameters and complex reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane ODH reactivity while preserving high ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, aiding CH bond activation. Its incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, inhibits crystallization, and modifies acidity, peaking at a specific Nb/Ni ratio. NiONb bond formation correlates with acidity, confirmed by XRD data. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. As an electron donor, niobium reduces p+ holes, consuming electrophilic oxygen species, enhancing selective ethane conversion to ethene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), ethane conversion's apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased ethylene selectivity. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields the best results. Over time, all catalysts deactivate due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, eliminating active Ospecies. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 phases is crucial for efficiency, with thermal decomposition of oxalate ions affecting catalytic properties. Small Nb percentages significantly impact activity, with optimal activity at 15% Nb due to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, the amorphous phase reacts with nickel oxide, forming inactive NiNb2O6. Long-term catalytic properties show systematic deactivation, attributed to continuous reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance the redox properties, selectivity, and surface area of NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites exhibit reduced activity but increased selectivity for ethane ODH, attributed to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. However, high Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Optimizing the catalyst preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxide properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly modify structural and catalytic properties in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), enhancing ethane reactivity by over 50% but slightly reducing ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the materials' reduction characteristics. Bridging theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex catalytic systems presents challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise due to unpredictable non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased ethylene selectivity, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, notably Nb2O5 and NbO, influence catalytic activity in NiO for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The oxidation state of Nb varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base, Nb enhances surface oxygen binding, complicating oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, system behavior becomes complex. Preparation methods significantly impact performance, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing activity. Doping reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. High- and low-valence dopant distinctions seen in calculations align with experimental observations. Preparation method dependence is surprising, and its practical importance is unclear. Surface morphology and composition under reaction conditions are challenging to determine, making computational models approximate. To bridge models and experiments, defect-inclusive calculations and model system experiments are needed. Predicted trends require specific experimental testing. Due to uncertainties, computations offer qualitative trends and design rules. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, with computations explaining surface chemistry and prospecting for promising dopant-oxide pairs. Work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium reduces activation energy and alters oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic oxygen that causes total ethane oxidation. The reaction follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, favoring nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations face challenges due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and reducing lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176. NiO lattice contraction inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, until high Nb loading promotes NiO crystallization. NiONb bond formation correlates with acidity, peaking at a specific Nb/Ni ratio. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, suppressing total ethane oxidation and promoting selective ethene conversion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, influence NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number, leading to increased selectivity to ethylene. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, decreasing active phase content. The optimal Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound yields best results. Long-term stability studies show deactivation due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry, affecting Oactive species presence. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the niobium precursor, is key to catalyst efficiency. The optimal activity at 15% Nb is attributed to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, the amorphous phase reacts with nickel oxide, forming inactive NiNb2O6.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, selectivity, and surface area. At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO (1). High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich layer (2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (3). Preparation method impacts suggest potential for improved NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (4). Theoretical predictions and experimental observations present challenges in studying these complex catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50%, albeit with a minor 10% decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's influence on the catalyst's reduction properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by forming two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, complicating the alignment of theoretical predictions with experimental observations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity in NiO catalysts by reducing unselective oxygen radicals. The substitution of niobium cations into the NiO lattice, facilitated by its ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, decreases non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, leading to lower unselective oxygen species and improved ethane ODH activity. Higher dopant valence correlates with increased initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity. The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The extra positive charge in the NiO lattice, proportional to dopant cation valence, reduces oxygen species and increases ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, notably Nb2O5 and NbO, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The oxidation state of Nb in the doped oxide varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a Lewis base, Nb increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. In gas phase reactions, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain activity loss over time. Preparation methods significantly impact performance, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts enhance chemical activity. Doping reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. High- and low-valence dopants show distinct trends in experiments. The method of preparation's strong influence is surprising. Computational models are approximate due to the lack of detailed surface characterization. To bridge models and experiments, calculations on surfaces with defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work is exploratory but promising, with much left to be done.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and labeled oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but oxygen replenishment differs, leading to distinct surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills these vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations is challenging due to the complex reaction network and non-linear kinetic parameters.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane ODH reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, with an upper limit to Nb5+ cation dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, reducing grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading. The acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, correlating with NiONb bond formation. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity by consuming electrophilic oxygen species.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by reducing oxygen over-stoichiometry and electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content (3-7%), the activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease, enhancing catalytic sites' activity but reducing their number. Selectivity to ethylene increases. Beyond 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing active phase content. Ni0.85Nb0.15O yields the best results. Long-term stability studies show a continuous decrease in activity due to NiNb2O6 phase formation and reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry. Surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 influences efficiency, with optimal activity at 15% Nb due to decreased active phase particle size. Above 15%, an inactive mixed oxide phase forms. Catalyst regeneration attempts failed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, enhance NiO catalysts' redox properties and selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At Nb contents >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, indicating a Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the Nb-rich mixed oxide layer. The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability. Optimizing the catalyst preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH. However, reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations presents challenges due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their various stable forms and oxidation states, significantly enhance ethane reactivity in NiO catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation by over 50%, albeit with a minor 10% decrease in ethene selectivity. The TPR profile of NiNb catalysts reveals two distinct reduction peaks, indicating niobium's impact on the materials' reduction characteristics. Bridging theoretical predictions with experimental observations in these complex catalytic systems remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their diverse properties and oxidation states, form two distinct phases when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor for NiNb2O6 compound. This interaction reduces structural defects in NiO, correlating with high ethylene selectivity. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions. NiNbO catalysts show high activity and selectivity for ethylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and unselective oxygen species, enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher valence dopants, like niobium, increase initial selectivity to ethylene, correlating with reduced oxygen species. The clear correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports these findings, with higher dopant valence leading to lower oxygen species and higher ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their role as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and high energy of Nb2O5 contribute to the system's complexity. The oxidation state of Nb varies with its environment, affecting reactivity. As a strong Lewis base, Nb increases surface oxygen binding, hindering oxidation. In the presence of gas-phase oxygen, the system's behavior becomes intricate. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and oxygen release, altering surface oxygen reactivity. The method of catalyst preparation significantly influences performance, with qualitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants observed in calculations aligns with experimental findings. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations face challenges due to uncertainties in preparation methods and surface characterization. Further research is needed to bridge the gap between models and experiments.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly influence ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) when doped into NiO catalysts. Doping decreases activation energy and alters oxygen species, eliminating electrophilic oxygen responsible for ethane's total oxidation. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, with different oxygen replenishment routes leading to varied product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces these sites, favoring diffusion and the formation of nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical predictions and experimental observations face challenges due to complex kinetic parameters and reaction networks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped NiO catalysts enhance ethane ODH reactivity while preserving ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel dispersion and CH bond activation, contracting the NiO lattice and reducing the lattice constant. This contraction reaches a limit, indicating maximum Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, and modifies acidity, peaking at a specific Nb/Ni ratio. The acidity is linked to NiONb bond formation. Nb ions lower p+ concentration, reducing excess oxygen on the surface. Excess oxygen inversely correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ holes. O2-TPD shows Nb eliminates electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane's total oxidation and favoring ethene conversion. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping boosts ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). At low Nb content (3-7%), the active sites become more active but less numerous, decreasing the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion, while selectivity to ethylene increases. Optimal yields are observed at 15% Nb, attributed to the decrease in active phase particle size and prevention of sintering. Above 15%, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms, reducing the active phase content. Long-term stability studies reveal a continuous decrease in activity due to the formation of NiNb2O6 and reduction of oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a lack of Oactive species. The surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5 is crucial for efficiency, and the thermal decomposition of oxalate ions affects catalytic properties. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, affect NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) by altering redox properties, reducing NiO crystallite size, and enhancing selectivity. At Nb content >5 at.%, NbNiO composites are less active but more selective for ethane ODH, likely due to the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO (Quote 1). High Nb loadings lead to significant catalyst deactivation due to the close interaction between NiO and the thin Nb-rich mixed oxide layer (Quote 2). The most efficient ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, combining high activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 3). Optimizing the preparation method could further improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH (Quote 4). Challenges arise in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to the complex interplay between niobium oxides' properties and catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, significantly enhance ethane reactivity by over 50% while slightly decreasing ethene selectivity by 10%. The TPR profile of the NiNb catalyst reveals two distinct reduction peaks at 335 and 510 C, indicating niobium's impact on the catalyst's reduction characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.01.015"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, by interacting with cationic vacancies in NiO, form two structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the host lattice (NiNb solid solution) and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. This interaction reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Challenges arise from non-stoichiometric oxidic phases in low-temperature treated NiO, impacting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, due to their ionic radii, valence, and electron-donor properties, substitute nickel atoms in NiO catalysts, forming a NiNb solid solution. This substitution reduces non-stoichiometry and cationic defects, decreasing unselective oxygen species and enhancing ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) activity. Higher dopant valence increases initial selectivity to ethylene, with NiNb exhibiting the highest selectivity (90%). The less mobile oxygen species in high valence doped NiO are more selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The extra positive charge in the NiO lattice from high valence dopants reduces oxygen species and increases ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with diverse properties including stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The stability of NbO and high energy of formation of Nb2O5 contribute to the complexity of the system. The oxidation state of Nb in doped oxides can vary, affecting reactivity. The Nb dopant acts as a strong Lewis base, increasing surface oxygen binding and hindering oxidation. However, in the presence of oxygen, the system's behavior becomes complex. The kinetics of Nb segregation to the surface can explain the loss of activity in some catalysts. Doping with Nb reduces hydrogen uptake and decreases oxygen release, indicating changes in surface oxygen reactivity. The distinction between high- and low-valence dopants is observed in experiments, matching computational trends. The method of catalyst preparation significantly impacts performance, with qualitative and quantitative differences observed. Smaller particles in doped catalysts have more defects, enhancing chemical activity. The lack of experimental methods to determine surface morphology under reaction conditions makes computational models approximate. To bridge the gap, calculations on surfaces with various defects and experiments on model systems are needed. Doping generally improves catalytic activity, as shown by computations and experiments. The work on doped oxides is incomplete but promising.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_10"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, with their diverse properties and oxidation states, significantly impact their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). Doping with niobium decreases activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction on both oxides follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, but the route for replenishing surface oxygen differs, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium fills vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethane to ethylene conversion. The complexity of these catalytic systems presents challenges in aligning theoretical predictions with experimental observations due to non-linear kinetic parameters and a complex reaction network.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Niobium oxides, when doped into NiO catalysts, enhance ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium improves nickel phase dispersion and acts as an electron transfer promoter, facilitating CH bond activation. Incorporation into the NiO lattice causes lattice contraction, with a decrease in lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, indicating an upper limit for Nb5+ dissolution. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high loading, NiO crystallization increases. Substitution leads to charge imbalance, modifying mixed NiNbO oxide properties. Acidity peaks at a specific Nb/Ni ratio, related to NiONb bond formation, confirmed by XRD data showing maximum solubility for Ni0.85Nb0.15. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, limiting excess oxygen on the surface, which correlates with ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. O2-TPD experiments show Nb consumes electrophilic oxygen species, suppressing ethane oxidation to CO2 and enhancing ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    