<quotes>

[1] "Almost ubiquitously, supported bimetallic alloy catalysts are prepared via a technique involving the adsorption, impregnation, deposition, or precipitation of monometallic precursors onto the support followed by an activation step (usually reduction) (13)."

[2] "A common problem that can arise from coimpregnation techniques is chromatographic separation of the precursor ions as they pass through the pore structure of the support (13)."

[3] "A more homogeneous alloy may be formed with high-temperature reduction or annealing; however, this risks possible excessive sintering (13)."

[4] "Although some techniques allow for a degree of control over metal particle sizes and distribution (14), particle composition and surface composition of metals may have wide-ranging distributions."

[5] "Even when overall surface compositions are relatively homogeneous, varying degrees of clustering of one metal on the surface can produce numerous types of active sites on particles throughout the catalyst (13)."

[6] "A different approach to the preparation of highly dispersed supported metal particle catalysts is to adsorb ligand-stabilized bimetallic molecular precursors (particularly inorganic and organometallic cluster compounds) onto the support and thermally remove the ligands."

[7] "Past studies in this field have largely involved the use of mono- and bimetallic carbonyl clusters as precursors; several reviews on the subject are available (1522)."

[8] "In most studies, molecular cluster compounds were supported on various oxide supports (e.g., silica, alumina, magnesia, or zeolites) and subsequently decarbonylated by heating under vacuum or inert atmosphere."

[9] "Further studies have shown that in some cases the structure of the metal core remains substantially intact after ligand removal (2325)."

[10] "These well-defined metal cluster catalysts have been examined with a variety of probe reactions, the results of which have important implications toward the nature of catalytic active sites (2325)."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The most commonly utilized synthesis methods for supported bimetallic catalysts involve the adsorption, impregnation, deposition, or precipitation of monometallic precursors onto the support followed by an activation step, usually reduction. However, this method can lead to chromatographic separation of the precursor ions as they pass through the pore structure of the support. A more homogeneous alloy may be formed with high-temperature reduction or annealing, but this risks possible excessive sintering. Some techniques allow for a degree of control over metal particle sizes and distribution, but particle composition and surface composition of metals may have wide-ranging distributions. Even when overall surface compositions are relatively homogeneous, varying degrees of clustering of one metal on the surface can produce numerous types of active sites on particles throughout the catalyst. A different approach is to adsorb ligand-stabilized bimetallic molecular precursors onto the support and thermally remove the ligands. This method has been used in past studies, particularly with mono- and bimetallic carbonyl clusters as precursors. In most studies, molecular cluster compounds were supported on various oxide supports and subsequently decarbonylated by heating under vacuum or inert atmosphere. Further studies have shown that in some cases the structure of the metal core remains substantially intact after ligand removal. These well-defined metal cluster catalysts have been examined with a variety of probe reactions, the results of which have important implications toward the nature of catalytic active sites.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.制备双金属催化剂最常用的合成方法涉及将单金属前体吸附、浸渍、沉积或沉淀到支撑体上，然后进行活化步骤，通常是还原。然而，这种方法会导致前体离子在通过支撑体的孔结构时发生色谱分离。通过高温还原或退火可以形成更均匀的合金，但这也可能带来过度烧结的风险。一些技术允许在一定程度上控制金属颗粒的大小和分布，但金属的颗粒组成和表面组成可能具有广泛的分布。即使当总体表面组成相对均匀时，表面一种金属的不同程度的聚集也可能在催化剂的整个颗粒上产生多种活性位点。另一种方法是将配体稳定的双金属分子前体吸附到支撑体上，然后热去除配体。过去的研究大多涉及使用单金属和双金属羰基簇作为前体。在大多数研究中，分子簇化合物被支撑在各种氧化物支撑体上，然后在真空或惰性气氛下加热脱羰。进一步的研究表明，在某些情况下，金属核的结构在去除配体后仍然保持实质上的完整性。这些定义明确的金属簇催化剂已经通过各种探针反应进行了研究，其结果对催化活性位点的性质具有重要意义。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
