<quotes>
[1] "The production of light alkanesethane and propanehas increased from 237 000 barrels per day in 2005 to over 400 000 barrels per day in 2015 because of extraction of shale gas using hydraulic fracturing technology."
[2] "As a result, the cost of ethane and propane has decreased substantially, creat- ing an opportunity for converting these alkanes into more valuable products (olefins and aromatics)."
[3] "Early research on the aromatization of light alkanes was conducted using bi-functional catalysts such as Pt/Al2O3 3,4 or metal oxides/alumina."
[4] "Although metals, such as Pt, have advantages such as increasing the rate of dehydrogenation,they also catalyze hydrogenolysis of the products which is detrimental to the process economics."
[5] "More recently, ZnII) or GaIII) exchanged into aluminosilicate zeolites has shown promising properties for the aromatization of light alkanes."
[6] "Processes for aromatization of light alkanes propane and butaneson acid zeolites, such as H-ZSM-5 in Mobil's M2-forming (in which ethane was considered non- aromatizable),11 or on metal (Ga or Zn) loaded ZSM-5 such as the Cyclar process by BP/UOP,12 Topas by Topse,13 Alpha by Asahi/Sanyo,14 Aroforming by IFP/Salutec and Z-forming by Mitsubishi/Chiyoda15 have been developed."
[7] "In the aromatization reaction of light alkanes, the feed composition determines the overall reactivity, product yield,rate of deactivation and required reaction temperature."
[8] "The more reactive the components and the lower their hydrogen content (such as olefins), result in higher aromatics yield, in lower reaction temperature and in faster deactivation rate."
[9] "The role of Brnsted acid sites (BAS) in alkane activation decreases as the number of carbons in the alkane decreases."
[10] "On H-ZSM-5 at 773 K, butane, for example, is four and one hundred times more reactive than propane and ethane, respectively."
[11] "As a result, the role of metal (or Lewis acid) sites is critical for ac- tivation of short chain hydrocarbons such as ethane, and more active metals, such as zinc, will be more desirable com- pared to less active metals such as gallium."
[12] "On the other hand, although gallium has lower activity for ethane conver- sion than zinc,17 it has found more application because of the loss of zinc metal at high temperatures in a reducing atmosphere."
[13] "Zinc can be introduced into the pores of zeolites by ion ex- change (IE), incipient wetness impregnation (IWI)18,19 or solid state reaction of zinc compounds (zinc dust,20 zinc chloride21 or dimethylzinc18) with the zeolite."
[14] "Different zinc sites are formed in the zeolites depending on the amount of loaded zinc, zeolite structure, framework Si/Al and method of prepa- ration:18,19 low zinc loading results in formation of zinc ions mostly at ion exchange positions such as Zn2+ (Scheme 1-a) or [ZnOH)]+ (Scheme 1-b) which during heating can react with a nearby proton forming Zn2+."
[15] "The concentration of BAS in the samples was measured by TPD of 2-propanamine as a probe molecule."
[16] "Increasing the amount of zinc in the samples resulted in a decrease in the microporous volume of samples (Table 1). This is due primarily to the formation (ZnO)n clusters in the zeolite pores,25 but is also due, in part, to the higher density of the samples."
[17] "The main products were ethylene, benzene and toluene but other species, such as methane, C3 and C4 (alkanes and alkenes) were formed in lower quantities (C3 > C4). Selectivity toward C5 and C6 (alkanes and alkenes) was less than 1% throughout the reactions."
[18] "In general, removal of hydrogen from the surface of cat- alysts enhances the formation of aromatics during dehydro- aromatization.8,36 Dehydrogenation of cyclic intermediates and hydrogen desorption steps were facilitated by the zinc sites, and this is one of the reasons for the higher selectivity toward aromatics in the case of metal-loaded ZSM-5 com- pared to H-ZSM-5."
[19] "In the case of low zinc content samples, the zinc ions were present as Zn2+ (Scheme 1-a) in which re-combinative hydrogen desorption is easier than from the oxygen-bridged zinc sites (Scheme 1-c).30,31 Propane and butane were formed on H-ZSM-5, by cracking of oligomers. However, on Zn-ZSM-5, propane and butane formation were low compared to H-ZSM-5 (Table 4)."
[20] "The cause of the deactivation was coke formation, reducing acces- sibility to active sites."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The growing demand for propylene has influenced the development of new production methods, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH), by creating an opportunity to convert light alkanes into more valuable products such as olefins and aromatics. Early research involved using bi-functional catalysts like Pt/Al2O3 or metal oxides/alumina, but these often catalyze hydrogenolysis which is detrimental to process economics. More recently, zinc (ZnII) or gallium (GaIII) exchanged into aluminosilicate zeolites have shown promising properties for PDH. Various processes for PDH, such as those developed by companies like BP/UOP, Topse, Asahi/Sanyo, IFP/Salutec, and Mitsubishi/Chiyoda, have been created to utilize these zeolite-based catalysts effectively.

2. The efficiency of PDH depends on the feed composition, affecting reactivity, product yield, rate of deactivation, and required reaction temperature. Components that are more reactive and have lower hydrogen content, like olefins, result in higher aromatics yield, lower reaction temperatures, and faster deactivation rates.

3. The role of Brnsted acid sites (BAS) in alkane activation decreases with the number of carbons in the alkane. For instance, at 773 K, butane is significantly more reactive than propane and ethane. This highlights the critical role of metal (Lewis acid) sites for the activation of short chain hydrocarbons such as ethane, making more active metals like zinc preferable compared to less active metals like gallium.

4. Gallium, despite having lower ethane conversion activity than zinc, has found more application due to zinc's loss at high temperatures in a reducing atmosphere. Zinc can be introduced into zeolites through ion exchange, incipient wetness impregnation, or solid state reactions, leading to the formation of various zinc sites depending on the amount loaded, zeolite structure, framework Si/Al ratio, and preparation method.

5. The concentration of BAS in samples is measured using TPD of 2-propanamine as a probe molecule. The amount of zinc in the samples influences the microporous volume, primarily due to the formation of zinc oxide clusters in the zeolite pores, but also due to the higher density of the samples. This can affect the reactivity and selectivity of the catalyst.

6. The products formed during PDH include ethylene, benzene, and toluene, with smaller quantities of methane, C3, and C4 (alkanes and alkenes). Selectivity toward C5 and C6 (alkanes and alkenes) is generally low.

7. The presence of zinc sites facilitates the dehydrogenation of cyclic intermediates and hydrogen desorption, enhancing the formation of aromatics during dehydroaromatization. This contributes to the higher selectivity of metal-loaded ZSM-5 catalysts compared to H-ZSM-5 catalysts for PDH.

8. In low zinc content samples, zinc ions are typically present as Zn2+, which allows for easier re-combinative hydrogen desorption compared to oxygen-bridged zinc sites. This affects the formation of propane and butane, which are cracked from oligomers on H-ZSM-5 but occur at lower rates on Zn-ZSM-5.

9. The deactivation of PDH catalysts is attributed to coke formation, which reduces accessibility to active sites, impacting the efficiency and longevity of the catalysts.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 石油裂解技术的兴起，尤其是页岩气的开采，使得轻质烷烃（如乙烷和丙烷）的产量从2005年的每天23.7万桶增加到2015年的每天40万桶以上。这降低了乙烷和丙烷的成本，为将这些烷烃转化为更有价值的产品（如烯烃和芳烃）提供了机会。

2. 在早期的研究中，研究人员使用双功能催化剂（如Pt/Al2O3或金属氧化物/氧化铝）对轻质烷烃进行了芳香化研究。然而，这类催化剂催化氢解反应，这损害了过程的经济性。近年来，通过离子交换、浸渍或固相反应将锌（ZnII）或镓（GaIII）引入沸石等铝硅酸盐中，显示出对轻质烷烃芳香化的有前景的性质。

3. 用于轻质烷烃裂解的工艺包括但不限于Mobil的M2型（在其中将乙烷视为非芳香化）和由BP/UOP、Topse、Asahi/Sanyo、IFP/Salutec和Mitsubishi/Chiyoda开发的Cyclar、Topas、Alpha、Aroforming和Z-forming等过程。这些工艺利用酸性沸石如H-ZSM-5进行芳香化，其产率、反应温度和脱活速率受原料组成的影响。

4. 芳香化反应中，不同组分的活性以及其氢含量较低（如烯烃）时，能产生更高的芳烃产率、更低的反应温度和更快的脱活速率。烷基磺酸基（BAS）在烷烃激活中的作用随烷烃碳原子数的减少而降低。例如，在773 K下，丁烷相对于丙烷和乙烷的活性分别为四倍和一百倍。

5. 因此，短链烃（如乙烷）的激活主要依赖于金属或路易斯酸位点，更活泼的金属（如锌）比较不活泼的金属（如镓）更优选。尽管镓在乙烷转化方面的活性低于锌，但由于高温下锌金属的损失，镓在还原气氛下的应用更为广泛。

6. 锌可以通过离子交换、初始湿法浸渍或锌化合物（如锌粉、锌氯化物或二甲基锌）与沸石的固相反应引入沸石孔中。根据负载量、沸石结构、框架Si/Al比例和制备方法的不同，会在沸石中形成不同的锌位点。

7. 催化剂样品中Brnsted酸位点（BAS）的浓度通过2-丙胺的TPD测量得到。随着锌含量的增加，样品的微孔体积会减小，主要由于锌氧化物簇在沸石孔中的形成，同时也由于样品密度的增加。这会影响催化剂的活性和选择性。

8. 在PDH过程中，产物包括乙烯、苯和甲苯，以及少量的甲烷、C3和C4（烷烃和烯烃）。C5和C6（烷烃和烯烃）的产率通常很低。

9. 锌位点促进环状中间体的脱氢和氢解步骤，从而增强了在PDH过程中形成芳烃的能力。这解释了金属负载的ZSM-5催化剂相比H-ZSM-5催化剂具有更高选择性的原因。

10. 在低锌含量样品中，锌离子通常以Zn2+形式存在，这种形式的氢再组合更容易发生在氧桥接锌位点上。这影响了丙烷和丁烷的形成，它们在H-ZSM-5中由寡聚物裂解产生，但在Zn-ZSM-5中发生的速度较慢。

11. 催化剂的失活归因于焦炭的形成，这减少了活性位点的可接近性，影响了催化剂的效率和寿命。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
