<quotes>

[1] "Propene is a major platform chemical with applications in the polymer and chemical industry and its place in modern society is guaranteed over the coming decades."
[2] "At present, sources of propane are mostly non-renewable, but the development of technologies to produce renewable green propane are gaining traction, which coupled with new catalytic processes will provide the platform to produce green propene."
[3] "Currently, non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation (DDH) is the only commercialised process, and this is reflected in the high spacetime yield commonly reported over the most active catalysts which are typically Pt or Cr based."
[4] "However, the formation of coke over even the most selective catalysts necessitates multi-reactor cycling to facilitate regeneration."
[5] "Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) does not suffer from coke formation, but can lead to overoxidation, limiting the yield of propene."
[6] "While no commercial processes have yet been developed, a promising new class of ODH-O2 catalysts has emerged in recent years which use boron as the active component."
[7] "These catalysts are amongst the most active and selective reported to date for this reaction."
[8] "The use of CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) has also gained interest due to the environmental advantages of utilising CO2."
[9] "Although this is an attractive prospect with considerable potential, the propene yields reported over these catalysts are an order of magnitude lower than the most active DDH and ODH-O2 catalysts."
[10] "Despite significant advances in the past decade, current ODH-CO2 catalysts remain far from displaying the activity levels necessary to be considered for commercial application."
[11] "The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance."
[12] "Future catalyst design in DDH and ODH-O2 should focus on improving selectivity to propene, while ODH-CO2 catalysts are limited by their low intrinsic activity with respect to CO2."
[13] "The scarcity of some common catalytic elements is also discussed, with recommendations focusing on more abundant chemical elements."
[14] "Future research should focus on the low temperature activation of CO2 as a priority."
[15] "With further research and development of lower energy routes to propene based on the dehydrogenation of green propane, it should be possible to transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical intermediate."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Direct propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is the most promising method for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield, which is commonly reported over the most active catalysts that are typically Pt or Cr based. This technology addresses the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH can use renewable green propane as a feedstock, which is gaining traction as a sustainable alternative to non-renewable propane sources. The technology also avoids the formation of coke, which necessitates multi-reactor cycling for regeneration in non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) does not suffer from coke formation, but can lead to overoxidation, limiting the yield of propene. A promising new class of ODH-O2 catalysts has emerged in recent years, which use boron as the active component and are among the most active and selective reported to date for this reaction. The use of CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) has also gained interest due to the environmental advantages of utilizing CO2. However, the propene yields reported over these catalysts are an order of magnitude lower than the most active DDH and ODH-O2 catalysts. Future catalyst design in DDH and ODH-O2 should focus on improving selectivity to propene, while ODH-CO2 catalysts are limited by their low intrinsic activity with respect to CO2. The scarcity of some common catalytic elements is also discussed, with recommendations focusing on more abundant chemical elements. Future research should prioritize the low temperature activation of CO2. With further research and development of lower energy routes to propene based on the dehydrogenation of green propane, it should be possible to transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical intermediate.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.直接丙烷脱氢（PDH）技术是生产丙烯最有前途的方法，因为最常用的催化剂通常是Pt或Cr基催化剂，它们具有高时空产率。这种技术解决了传统生产方法在原料供应、过程效率和产品选择性方面面临的挑战。PDH可以使用可再生绿色丙烷作为原料，这作为一种可持续的替代方案，正在获得越来越多的关注，以替代非可再生的丙烷来源。该技术还避免了非氧化直接脱氢过程中为再生而必需的多反应器循环中形成的焦炭。使用O2的氧化脱氢（ODH-O2）不会产生焦炭，但会导致过度氧化，从而限制丙烯的产量。近年来，出现了一种有前景的新型ODH-O2催化剂，它们以硼作为活性成分，是迄今为止报道的此类反应中最活跃和最具选择性的催化剂之一。使用CO2作为软氧化剂（ODH-CO2）也引起了人们的兴趣，因为利用CO2具有环境优势。然而，这些催化剂上报告的丙烯产量比最活跃的DDH和ODH-O2催化剂低一个数量级。未来DDH和ODH-O2催化剂的设计应侧重于提高对丙烯的选择性，而ODH-CO2催化剂由于对CO2的固有活性较低而受到限制。还讨论了一些常见催化元素的稀缺性，建议关注更丰富的化学元素。未来的研究应优先考虑CO2的低温活化。通过进一步研究和开发基于绿色丙烷脱氢的丙烯的低能耗路线，有可能改变这种关键中间体化学品的制造格局。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
