<quotes>

[1] "In this work, we report an in-depth structural characterization of pure NiO and NiNbO mixed oxide catalysts (Nb/Ni = 00.25), highly active and selective materials for ethylene production via ethane ODH, using high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) coupled with energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDS)."
[2] "It was found that low-temperature treatment of pure NiO leads to the formation of a non-stoichiometric oxidic phase with characteristic structural defects due to cationic deficiency, as demonstrated by microscopy results."
[3] "On the Nb-doped oxides, two distinct structural phases, formed via the reaction of the Nb cations with the cationic vacancies, were identified: a NiO phase having Nb cations incorporated in the host lattice, which retains its initial cubic structure (NiNb solid solution), and a highly distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor for the formation of the mixed NiNb2O6 crystal compound."
[4] "The reduction of the structural defects in NiO via their interaction with the niobium ions was correlated with the extremely high selectivity of the NiNbO catalysts to ethylene in the ethane ODH reaction, since these vacancies lead to the formation of strong oxidizing electrophilic oxygen species (O), responsible for the total oxidation of ethane to CO2."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reacting with the cationic vacancies in NiO to form two distinct structural phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations incorporated in the host lattice, which retains its initial cubic structure (NiNb solid solution), and a highly distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor for the formation of the mixed NiNb2O6 crystal compound. The reduction of structural defects in NiO via their interaction with niobium ions is correlated with the extremely high selectivity of the NiNbO catalysts to ethylene in the ethane ODH reaction. The challenges in reconciling theoretical predictions with experimental observations when studying these complex catalytic systems are not explicitly mentioned in the literature.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.铌氧化物的多样性质，包括其各种稳定形式和氧化态，通过与NiO中的阳离子空位反应，形成两种不同的结构相：一个NiO相，其中Nb离子被掺入到主体晶格中，保持其初始的立方结构（NiNb固溶体），以及一个高度扭曲的Nb富集相，是形成混合NiNb2O6晶体化合物的前体。通过与铌离子相互作用减少NiO中的结构缺陷与NiNbO催化剂在乙烷ODH反应中对乙烯的极高选择性相关。在研究这些复杂的催化系统时，将理论预测与实验观察相协调的挑战在文献中没有明确提及。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
