<quotes>

[1] "Scheme 27. (a) General Equation for the Reaction of Alkane Metathesis; (b) Major Products in Alkane Metathesis; (c) Proposed Two-Site Mechanism for the Catalytic Metathesis of Alkanes (Only One of the Two Possible Metallacyclobutanes Is Represented); (d) Selected Catalyst Precursors (See Table 4 for Details)"
[2] "First, the two-site mechanism is proposed to involve tantalum hydrides as key intermediates (Scheme 27c). After a first CH bond activation to form H2 and Ta-alkyl surface species, one site generates an alkene via a β-H transfer, thus regenerating tantalum hydrides; the other site evolves toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via an α-H transfer."
[3] "The alkene, generated by the first site, then undergoes a homologation process on the second site, which leads to a different alkene and alkylidene species. Subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps provide a way to liberate the lower and higher alkane homologues."
[4] "Second, the one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, which are formed in situ from either silica supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene tantalum surface complexes (Scheme 28)."
[5] "In this case, the formation and the conversion of the alkene intermediates take place within the coordination sphere of the metal center, as shown previously for the formation of cross-metathesis products, resulting from the reaction of an alkane and a neopentyl neopentylidene surface complex (Scheme 19, R1 = R2 = CH2R)."
[6] "Both mechanisms are based on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride as a key intermediate."
[7] "Today, several catalysts have been developed on the basis of well-defined metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes (Table 4 and Scheme 27d): Tantalum hydrides prepared on various oxide supports: silicaalumina, alumina, and tailored made supports (entries 14), (262, 310) but they display similar activities and selectivities with the original silica supported tantalum hydrides."
[8] "Tungsten hydrides supported on oxide supports (entries 57); (260-262) while the silica supported system is a poor catalyst because of the lack of stability of the tungsten hydrides, the silicaalumina and alumina supported tungsten hydrides are more stable and selective than the corresponding tantalum hydrides."
[9] "Well-defined silica supported metal alkyl alkylidene catalyst precursors; those based on Ta display similar selectivity to that of the parent tantalum hydrides but are slightly less productive (entries 810); (251, 252) those based on Mo imido complexes have similar activity to that of the parent silica supported tantalum hydrides but higher selectivities (entry 11). (253, 254)"
[10] "In the latter type of catalysts, it was clearly shown that both the alkylidene and the alkyl ligands were necessary to obtain catalytic activity in alkane metathesis, because the corresponding alkylidene amido complexes are inactive despite their much higher performances as alkene metathesis catalyst precursors (entry 12). (311, 312)"
[11] "Note that Re alkyl alkylidene complexes are also active (entry 13), (254) but with much lower performances, probably because of their higher instability."
[12] "Overall, detailed investigations on these types of catalysts are consistent with a one-site mechanism and show that deactivation of these systems is probably due to degrafting (vide infra, Section 3.1.3), (254) preventing regeneration under H2 as performed on the hydride based catalysts."
[13] "Well-defined alkyl alkylidyne surface complexes of W, which are highly active alkene metathesis catalysts, (278, 313, 314) can also be used as alkane metathesis catalyst precursors (entries 1416)."
[14] "While the silica supported system is inactive, probably because of a fast decomposition, the silicaalumina and alumina supported systems display activities comparable to those of the corresponding tantalum alkyl alkylidene systems (entries 810) and a greater selectivity for n  1 and n + 1 homologues (entries 67)."
[15] "Overall, the current best reported catalysts are based on alumina or silicaalumina supported tungsten hydrides."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves both two-site and one-site schemes. In the two-site mechanism, tantalum hydrides act as key intermediates. After initial CH bond activation, one site generates an alkene via β-H transfer, regenerating tantalum hydrides, while the other site evolves toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene undergoes a homologation process on the second site, leading to different alkenes and alkylidene species. Subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberate lower and higher alkane homologues. In the one-site mechanism, tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates are formed in situ from silica-supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene tantalum surface complexes. The formation and conversion of alkene intermediates take place within the coordination sphere of the metal center. Both mechanisms involve alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride as key intermediates. Catalysts based on well-defined metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes have been developed, with tungsten hydrides supported on oxide supports showing higher stability and selectivity than tantalum hydrides. The selectivity in higher homologues is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process, with 1-alkenes mainly participating in the homologation process.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.硅胶支持的钽氢化物催化烷烃复分解的综合机制涉及两站点和一站点方案。在两站点机制中，钽氢化物作为关键中间体。经过初始CH键活化后，一个站点通过β-H转移生成烯烃，再生钽氢化物，而另一个站点通过α-H转移演变为Ta-烷基化氢化物。烯烃在第二个站点上进行同系化过程，导致不同的烯烃和烷基化物种。随后的氢化和氢解步骤释放较低和较高的烷烃同系物。在一站点机制中，钽烷基烷基化中间体在位从硅胶支持的钽氢化物或新戊基新戊基化钽表面复合物形成。烯烃中间体的形成和转化在金属中心的配位球内进行。两种机制都涉及烯烃复分解和烷基化氢化物作为关键中间体。基于明确定义的金属氢化物、烷基烷基化或烷基化表面复合物的催化剂已被开发，其中支持在氧化物支持上的钨氢化物显示出比钽氢化物更高的稳定性和选择性。在较高同系物中的选择性与烯烃复分解是关键同系化过程一致，其中1-烯烃主要参与同系化过程。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
