I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Scheme 25 Scheme 25. Hydrogenolysis of Alkane on [TaH]: (a) Hydrogenolysis of Propane and Final Product Distribution. (b) Proposed Elementary Mono-hydride Active Sites vs (c) Tris-hydride Active Sites (R = CH3 for Propane) Moreover, various cyclic alkanes, methylcyclopentane, cyclohexane, and cycloheptane, with the exception of cyclopentane also undergo hydrogenolysis with this catalyst, albeit with much lower rates and number of turnovers. (238) Here cyclic alkanes yield lower cyclic homologues: conversion of cyclohexane into methylcyclopentane and cyclopentane, and that of cycloheptane into methylcyclohexane and cyclohexane. It has been proposed that the key step probably involved, after the formation of the cycloalkyl derivatives via CH bond activation, a γ-H activation (Scheme 26). This yields a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps, e.g. hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement, to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. The low activity of the catalyst is probably due to the formation of cyclopentane, detected in all cases, which upon CH bond activation evolved toward cyclopentadienyl surface species (vide supra, section ).
Scheme 26 Scheme 26. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Hydrogenolysis of Cyclic Alkanes with Silica Supported Tantalum Hydrides: (A) Initial CH Bond Activation and CC Bond Cleavage and (B) Formation of Products Alkane Metathesis In 1997, Vidal et al. found that acyclic alkanes (CnH2n+2) are catalytically transformed into their lower and higher homologues (CniH2(ni)+2 and Cn+iH2(n+i)+2) in the absence of hydrogen by the silica supported tantalum hydrides (Scheme 27ab). (297, 298) Detailed mechanistic studies using different types of Ta-based catalyst precursors (251, 252) and kinetic studies in flow reactors (299) showed that alkenes were primary products and that the key CC bond cleavage and formation steps corresponded to those involved in alkene metathesis, i.e. [2 + 2]-cycloaddition and cycloreversion (vide supra). (300-303) Several mechanistic schemes are possible, involving either two sites or one site, and they involve well-known steps of molecular organometallic chemistry.
Scheme 27 Scheme 27. (a) General Equation for the Reaction of Alkane Metathesis; (b) Major Products in Alkane Metathesis; (c) Proposed Two-Site Mechanism for the Catalytic Metathesis of Alkanes (Only One of the Two Possible Metallacyclobutanes Is Represented); (d) Selected Catalyst Precursors (See Table 4 for Details) First, the two-site mechanism is proposed to involve tantalum hydrides as key intermediates (Scheme 27c). After a first CH bond activation to form H2 and Ta-alkyl surface species, one site generates an alkene via a β-H transfer, thus regenerating tantalum hydrides; the other site evolves toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via an α-H transfer. (304) The alkene, generated by the first site, then undergoes a homologation process on the second site, which leads to a different alkene and alkylidene species. Subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps provide a way to liberate the lower and higher alkane homologues. The selectivity in higher homologues, i.e. the presence of mainly n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, is fully consistent with the fact that alkene metathesis is the key homologation process and that 1-alkenes are mainly participating in the homologation process, (252, 298, 299) in contrast to the catalytic alkane metathesis processes based on mixtures of alkene metathesis and dehydrogenation/hydrogenation catalysts, where a broad distribution of lower and higher homologues are generated, as a result of the cross-metathesis of a broad range of alkene intermediates and, in particular, internal ones. (298, 305-309) Second, the one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, which are formed in situ from either silica supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene tantalum surface complexes (Scheme 28). (251, 252) In this case, the formation and the conversion of the alkene intermediates take place within the coordination sphere of the metal center, as shown previously for the formation of cross-metathesis products, resulting from the reaction of an alkane and a neopentyl neopentylidene surface complex (Scheme 19, R1 = R2 = CH2R).
Scheme 28 Scheme 28. Formation of Alkyl Alkylidene Intermediates from Tantalum Hydrides Both mechanisms are based on alkene metathesis and alkylidene hydride as a key intermediate. Today, several catalysts have been developed on the basis of well-defined metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes (Table 4 and Scheme 27d): Tantalum hydrides prepared on various oxide supports: silicaalumina, alumina, and tailored made supports (entries 14), (262, 310) but they display similar activities and selectivities with the original silica supported tantalum hydrides.
Tungsten hydrides supported on oxide supports (entries 57); (260-262) while the silica supported system is a poor catalyst because of the lack of stability of the tungsten hydrides, the silicaalumina and alumina supported tungsten hydrides are more stable and selective than the corresponding tantalum hydrides.
Well-defined silica supported metal alkyl alkylidene catalyst precursors; those based on Ta display similar selectivity to that of the parent tantalum hydrides but are slightly less productive (entries 810); (251, 252) those based on Mo imido complexes have similar activity to that of the parent silica supported tantalum hydrides but higher selectivities (entry 11). (253, 254) In the latter type of catalysts, it was clearly shown that both the alkylidene and the alkyl ligands were necessary to obtain catalytic activity in alkane metathesis, because the corresponding alkylidene amido complexes are inactive despite their much higher performances as alkene metathesis catalyst precursors (entry 12). (311, 312) Note that Re alkyl alkylidene complexes are also active (entry 13), (254) but with much lower performances, probably because of their higher instability. (281) Overall, detailed investigations on these types of catalysts are consistent with a one-site mechanism and show that deactivation of these systems is probably due to degrafting (vide infra, Section 3.1.3), (254) preventing regeneration under H2 as performed on the hydride based catalysts.
Well-defined alkyl alkylidyne surface complexes of W, which are highly active alkene metathesis catalysts, (278, 313, 314) can also be used as alkane metathesis catalyst precursors (entries 1416). While the silica supported system is inactive, probably because of a fast decomposition, the silicaalumina and alumina supported systems display activities comparable to those of the corresponding tantalum alkyl alkylidene systems (entries 810) and a greater selectivity for n  1 and n + 1 homologues (entries 67). Overall, the current best reported catalysts are based on alumina or silicaalumina supported tungsten hydrides.
Alkane metathesis can also be used to make highly branched alkanes. For instance, the alumina supported tungsten hydrides convert selectively and catalytically 2-methylpropane into 2,3-dimethylbutane (42%) and ethane (41%) (Scheme 29a). (315) Despite the transfer of two carbons in place of one, as usually observed previously, this selectively can be explained using the same mechanism and the same alkylidene hydride intermediates (Scheme 29b). Finally, it is also possible to carry out alkane cross-metathesis processes. For instance, ethane/toluene mixtures are catalytically converted into a mixture of ethylbenzene and xylenes by the silica supported tantalum hydride (Scheme 29c). (316) This shows that both Csp3 and Csp2 can be involved in the alkane metathesis process. Note that Csp2 functionalization probably involves a different type of mechanism; one possibility is the Csp2-H activation on alkylidene or alkylidyne intermediates followed by an α-alkyl migration and subsequent CH bond activation and hydrogenolysis steps to form higher alkane homologues and regenerate the active species (vide infra, Section and Scheme 31c).
Table 4. Comparison of Catalyst Precursors in the Metathesis of Propane at 150 C after 120 h entry catalyst precursorsa TONb selectivities/% C1 C2 C4c C5c C6 1 TaH/SiO2 60 10 46 37 7 traces (3.5)     (5.1) (2.2) 2 TaH/SiO2Al2O3 59 11.5 46.5 35.5 6.0 traces (4)     (4.1) (2.2) 3 TaH/Al2O3 60 9.5 47.5 36.5 6.0 traces (2.5)     (8.6) (4.5) 4 TaH/SiO2Zr 100 10 46 37 7 traces (3) 5 WH/SiO2 8 5.5 56.0 32 6.5 traces ()     (10.4) (3.6) 6 WH/SiO2Al2O3 123 2.0 58.0 32.0 6.5 1.5 (8.5)     (6.7) (3.7) 7 WH/Al2O3 121 2.5 57.5 33.0 6.5 1.5 (8.5)     (7.8) (3.8) 8 SiSOTa(CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 35 13 47.5 32.5 6.0 1d (3)     (0.5) (1.4) 9 SiAlOTa(CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 33 10.5 47.0 35.0 6.5 1d ()     (3.8) (2.3) 10 AlSOTa(CHtBu)(CH2tBu)2 34 5.0 52.0 38.0 4.5 traces ()     (7.0) (3.5) 11 SiSOMo(NR)(CHtBu)(CH2tBu) 55 <0.2 56.0 38.0 6.0 0.5 (1.1)     (13) (7.4) 12 SiSOMo(NR)(=CHtBu)(NR2) <1 13 SiSORe(CR)(CHtBu)(CH2tBu) 13 3.5 56.0 39 4.0 traces (0.3)     (3.1) (1.6) 14 SiSOW(CtBu)(CH2tBu)2 <1 15 SiAlOW(CtBu)(CH2tBu)2 29 1.5 61.5 29 7 1 (0.7)     (7.5) (4.2) 16 AlSOW(CtBu)(CH2tBu)2 28 2.5 65.5 24 7 1 (1.8)     (7.1) (3.3) 17 (SiSO)2Zr(H)2 60 23 39 24 4.8 3.6e (0.5) (1) 18 (SiSO)2Zr(CH2tBu)2  30.5 42.3 12.7 5.7 aThe names of the catalysts have been simplified as follows: MH/oxide in entries 17 refers to oxide supported metal hydrides, and the chemical formula in entries 816 gives the structure of the surface complexes with SiS, SiAl, and AlS referring to the siloxy group of a silica surface, the siloxy group of a silicaalumina surface, and the Al group of an alumina surface, respectively. bTONs are here defined as the number of equivalents of propane converted per total metal after 120 h. Values in parentheses correspond to initial rates in TON/h. cFor butanes and pentanes, the two numbers correspond in order to the selectivities of n- and i-isomers. dIn these cases, additional products, corresponding to cross-metathesis products, are obtained: 2,2-dimethylpropane (tBuCH2H), 2,2-dimethylbutane (tBuCH2CH3), and 2,2-dimethylpentane (tBuCH2C2H5); no tBuCH2C3H7 is detected (<0.1%); see Table 1. eSelectivities in the sum of C6 to C10 compounds.Scheme 29 Scheme 29. (a) Metathesis of 2-Methylpropane; (b) Key CarbonCarbon Bond Forming Steps from the Metallocarbene Hydride Intermediates; (c) Cross-metathesis of Ethane and Toluene Moreover, while silica or silicaalumina supported zirconium hydrides or alkyl do not display any catalytic activity in alkane metathesis under standard conditions (150 C and ca. 1 bar), they catalytically convert propane into higher and lower homologues under supercritical conditions (Table 4, entries 1718). (317) However, the product selectivity and distribution are very different from catalysts based on group 5 and 6 metals: formation of mainly branched products up to decanes with a relatively high selectivity in isobutane along with methane and ethane. Here it is proposed that propane homologation takes place on a bis-hydride surface species and involves the following elementary steps (Scheme 30): (1) formation of a bis-alkyl intermediate [Zr(n-Pr)2] via two σ-bond metathesis steps, (2) an homologation process yielding [Zr(C2H5)(i-Bu)] via successive β-alkyl transfer intramolecular H-transfer and insertion, and (3) regeneration of Zr(H)2 and formation of ethane and isobutane via hydrogenolysis (σ-bond metathesis of M-C by H2).Scheme 30 Scheme 30. Proposed Mechanism for the Catalytic Homologation of Alkanes by Oxide Supported Zirconium Hydrides Catalytic Conversion of Methane Alkane metathesis converts a given alkane into its lower and higher homologues, and in particular two ethane molecules into methane and propane. The reverse reaction implies a cross-metathesis reaction with methane and its incorporation into higher alkanes, e.g. methane and propane giving two ethane molecules. This reaction is slightly endothermic independently of temperature (ca. 10 kJ/mol), but using a large excess of methane, propane was catalytically and quantitatively converted into ethane (2 ethane molecules per converted propane) using the silica supported tantalum hydrides, probably via the same elementary steps of alkane metathesis (Scheme 31a). (318) Scheme 31 Scheme 31. Catalytic Conversions of Methane via (a) Cross-metathesis with Propane, (b) Nonoxidative Coupling, (c) CC Bond Formation in Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane, and (d) Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane and Benzene With the same tantalum hydride catalyst, but in the absence of other alkanes, methane can also be catalytically converted into an equimolar mixture of ethane and H2, which corresponds to the reaction of nonoxidative coupling (Scheme 31b). (206) This reaction is however highly endothermic and leads to very low conversions (ca. 0.1 and 0.2 at 300 and 375 C, respectively). A possible mechanism involved the CH bond activation of methane (R = CH3 in Scheme 31c) on metalmethylidene or methylidyne intermediates; (263-265) this generates an alkyl alkylidene species, which can rearrange via α-alkyl transfer into a Ta-CH2R. The catalytic cycle is then close upon reaction with methane, which liberates RCH3 and regenerates Ta-CH3. In the presence of benzene, coupling also takes place but leads to the selective formation of toluene and H2 (Scheme 31d), and the mechanism can take place similarly to methane replacing R = CH3 by R = Ph in the catalytic cycle. (319) Conclusion ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To CH bond activation of alkanes readily takes place on isolated metal centers bound to, or present on, oxide surfaces to form organometallic intermediates, and this corresponds to the key steps of numerous catalytic processes: H/D-exchange reactions, alkane hydrogenolysis and metathesis, alkane dehydrogenation, conversion of alkane into aromatics, as well as the cross-metathesis of methane and alkanes or nonoxidative coupling of methane.First, CH bond activation and the formation of Malkyl species occur on MO, MH, and MC bonds via σ-bond metathesis and on Malkylidene and Malkylidyne bonds via addition reactions, an elementary step whose transition state resembles that of a σ-bond metathesis. In contrast to molecular organometallic chemistry, CH bond activation via oxidative addition is only rarely encountered for these systems, with one reason being that metal centers belong to main group and early transition metals, usually in their higher oxidation states. Systems based on late transition metals, e.g. group VIII, are mainly found as particles, which were not discussed here.Second, intramolecular CH bond activation is also important in many catalytic processes. First, it is one of the processes which allows the formation of surface alkylidene and alkylidyne intermediates via α-H abstraction on bis-alkyl or alkylalkylidene species, respectively. Second, related elementary steps such as β-H abstraction and β-H transfer are also important in deactivation (degrafting) and chain transfer (alkane homologation) processes, respectively. Finally, a specific case is β-H transfer, which is the key step of (i) a chain walking mechanism, an important reaction in hydrogenation, polymerization, alkane hydrogenolysis, and possibly alkane metathesis, and (ii) deactivation mechanisms of alkene and alkane metathesis catalysts. Additionally, one should note that, in contrast to molecular organometallic chemistry, CC bond activation is often encountered in surface chemistry, including in catalytic processes (alkane hydrogenolysis and metathesis), and this is probably due to the possibility to explore the reactivity of these surface species at higher temperatures than those for the homologous molecular complexes because surfaces and, in particular, site isolation allow the access to highly reactiveyet stableintermediates. (320) Nonetheless, these CC bond activation processes take place via known elementary steps of molecular organometallic chemistry (and related to those of CH bond activation), i.e. mainly via α- and β-alkyl transfer processes, with the corresponding reverse elementary steps allowing the formation of CC bonds and chain growth. No intermolecular CC bond activation has been observed so far on these systems. This again shows the difference between isolated sites in high oxidation states and metal ensembles present at the surface of metal particles.Third, it is also noteworthy that the surface chemistry and particularly CH bond activation processes are very similar for bulk oxides and M-exchange zeolites, and this is probably an evidence for common structural features of active sites for these systems. For instance, it is possible that the structures of the defect sites in oxides are closely related to those of the active site Al and M sites of H-zeolites and M-exchange zeolites, respectively. Given the diversity of zeolite structures, it should be possible to control the nature, the density, and the accessibility of those active sites and thereby to obtain single-site catalysts. Moreover, the CH bond activation of alkanes on the reactive sites of oxides and zeolites, which are based on main group or group 10 metals (Al, Ga, and Zn), corresponds to a σ-bond metathesis, like for single-site catalysts based on early transition metals. The analogy between the reactivity of single-site catalysts, isolated ions in metal oxides and M-exchange zeolites, shows that research effort should also be directed in bridging the gap between these systems, for instance by designing well-defined active sites bound to or incorporated in the structure of zeolites as a way to generate robust single-site catalysts. (321-324) In contrast, under oxidative conditions (molecular oxygen or N2O), the CH bond activation processes are more complex; they typically involve a H-abstraction and radical-type mechanism. In fact, in some cases when high operating temperatures are used (above 500 C), the uncatalyzed and unselective gas phase reactions can become dominant. Therefore, metal-alkyl species are often not key reaction intermediates, even if they can be detected in some cases, probably as dormant species. Yet, such radical processes can lead to highly selective transformation in specific cases, such as the oxidation of butane into maleic anhydride. However, such cases are limited to specific substrates, and these reactions lead to otherwise low yields (low selectivity at high conversions or high selectivity at low conversion).Overall, the level of molecular understanding of single-site heterogeneous catalysts in terms of structure of the active sites and reaction mechanism is close to that obtained for homogeneous systems. The detailed description of these systems has in turn been used to develop rational approaches to improve catalysts (design) and to also discover novel alkane (including methane) homologation processes. There are however open questions regarding the so-called single-site catalysts: what is the effect of adjacent oxygen functionalities on structure and reactivity (local environment; are they truly single-site?), what is the stability of these systems (deactivation, regeneration, ...), can they be used in more complex reactions involving for instance molecular oxygen (vide infra)?In contrast, obtaining a detailed mechanistic understanding for the activation of alkanes on metal oxides or zeolites has been difficult and still requires a large research effort, despite many recent advances. This is due in large part to the difficulty to attain a molecular understanding of the active sites. One approach to bridge the gap between single-site catalysts and these systems is to improve characterization techniques, (325-333) in particular by combining advanced spectroscopic and computational studies. This requires looking at the pristine material as well as the material under working conditions (operando techniques). The thus-obtained detailed understanding of active site structures can in turn assist with design of new materials, in particular highly crystalline materials with defined chemical structures, with a control of the density of so-called defect sites, with a defined location of sites inside the oxide matrices.... (334-337) In the case of oxidative reaction processes, extra difficulties can be pointed out: very complex reaction mechanisms involving multielectron oxidation processes and molecular oxygen as well as radical or radical-like intermediates, oxide-based catalysts involving complex compositions and active site structures.... Here, despite years of research and promising industrial processes, a better molecular understanding of active sites and reaction mechanisms is probably critical to expect major advances in catalyst design. Major breakthroughs could originate from a deeper understanding of CH bond activation processes on MO or MO active sites with the aim to trigger CH bond as well as O2 activation at lower temperatures on metal oxides or supported metal oxides. This would assist with the design of more selective metal-based catalysts and avoid the unselective gas phase reaction processes. This also calls for a better control of the formation of active species on oxide surfaces, and one possible approach is the controlled reaction of well-defined oxide precursors including polyoxometallates. (338-340) This review also shows that the isolated metal centers of surfaces can display unusual reactivities when compared to molecular organometallic chemistry, even if they actually obey the same rules (elementary steps)! Their reactivity is by and large due to site isolation on surfaces, which can help stabilize reactive intermediates and which allow unusual structures, e.g. low coordination, as well as the use of higher temperatures. Looking more closely at these systems can probably provide new ideas in molecular chemistry in a similar way as Nature has inspired us to design homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysts. (341-343)


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 