<quotes>
[1] "To date, five main industrial processes for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes have been patented, two of which are currently being used to produce light olefins."
[2] "For some of the newly announced PDH installations, the industrial process to be used remains to be announced."
[3] "The Star (UHDE) process will be applied for the first time in two installations in the Middle East. The other two processes, fluidized bed dehydrogenation (FBD) process (Snamprogetti and Yarsintez) and Linde-BASF PDH, have not yet been commercially applied."
[4] "As of April 2012, 5 million tons of propylene was being produced by the 14 propane dehydrogenation plants around the globe."
[5] "Additionally, six isobutane dehydrogenation installations are currently in operation, with three other plants planned."
[6] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[7] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[8] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[9] "A number of factors including the high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Five industrial processes for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes have been patented. Two of these are currently in use to produce light olefins.

2. The industrial process for some of the announced propane dehydrogenation installations has yet to be determined.

3. The Star process by UHDE will be used for the first time in two installations in the Middle East. The FBD process by Snamprogetti and Yarsintez and the Linde-BASF PDH process have not been commercially applied.

4. In April 2012, 5 million tons of propylene were being produced by 14 propane dehydrogenation plants globally.

5. There are currently six isobutane dehydrogenation installations in operation, with plans for three more.

6. The profitability of propane dehydrogenation relies heavily on the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable.

7. The shift towards using shale-based ethane for steam cracking in the US has been facilitated by the abundance of cheap natural gas liquids, particularly ethane.

8. The number of new propane dehydrogenation installations is expected to grow significantly in the future, with dozens already announced and under construction.

9. Various factors, including high energy demands, low olefin selectivity, diminishing petroleum resources, and rising oil prices, are driving the petrochemical industry to seek more economical feedstocks and efficient conversion technologies.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 到目前为止，已有五种工业过程用于轻烷烃的脱氢，其中两种目前被用于生产轻烯烃。

2. 对于一些宣布的丙烷脱氢装置，其工业过程尚未确定。

3. UHDE的Star过程将在中东的两个装置中首次使用。由Snamprogetti和Yarsintez开发的流化床脱氢过程以及Linde-BASF PDH过程尚未商业应用。

4. 截至2012年4月，全球14个丙烷脱氢装置每年生产500万吨丙烯。

5. 目前有六个异丁烷脱氢装置在运行，计划再建设三个。

6. 烷烃脱氢的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷与丙烯的价格差异，使得当前市场条件非常有利。

7. 美国转向使用便宜的页岩气液体（特别是乙烷）进行蒸汽裂解，这是由于大量的廉价天然气液体的可用性。

8. 预计未来新丙烷脱氢装置的数量将显著增加，已有数十个宣布并正在建设中。

9. 各种因素，包括高能耗、低烯烃选择性、石油资源减少和油价上涨，都在推动石油化工行业寻求更经济的原料和更高效的转化技术。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
