<quotes>
[1] "Recently, several research groups have reported that hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) is an outstanding and selective catalyst for the ODH of alkanes to corresponding olefins with only negligible COx formation."
[2] "Interestingly, a recent work implied a possible influence of gas-phase radical chemistry of h-BN catalyst in ODHP reaction,6 in which no expected relationship was found between the catalytic activity and contact time."
[3] "Wang etal.7 have proposed that methyl radicals are generated on the h-BN surface from the CC bond cleavage, leading to various secondary reaction pathways involving methyl radicals during ODHP."
[4] "The integrated peak intensity of signals of various gas-phase components in the SVUV-PIMS spectra of the ODHP reaction catalyzed by BN-T-high sample was plotted as a function of temperature and shown in Figure2B."
[5] "In our DFT study, a surface model was constructed from B2O3 containing surface BO3 units (Supporting Information, FigureS23; further discussion of surface model therein)."
[6] "We find the formation of such as ethylene and methyl radicals can occur competitively over either the surface or the gas-phase (Supporting Information, FiguresS30, S31) with similar barriers."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane over hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) involves both surface-mediated and gas-phase radical pathways. Propene is exclusively formed through the surface reaction, while C1 and C2 products are formed via both surface and gas-phase pathways. Methyl radicals are generated on the h-BN surface from the cleavage of the C-C bond in propane, leading to various secondary reaction pathways. The ODH reaction over h-BN and supported boron oxide catalysts involves the gas-phase radical mechanisms with unambiguously identified gas-phase methyl radicals. Detailed reaction pathways for the formation of various products are proposed through DFT calculations. Propene is mainly formed from the surface reaction via the cleavage of the C-H bond of propane. Both surface-mediated and gas-phase reactions contribute to the formation of C1 and C2 products. These findings provide new insights into understanding the ODH reaction mechanisms over boron-based catalysts, which are significant for developing highly selective catalysts for alkane ODH.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在六方硼氮（h-BN）上进行的丙烷氧化脱氢反应涉及表面介导和气体相自由基途径。丙烯仅通过表面反应形成，而C1和C2产物则通过表面和气体相途径形成。甲基自由基在h-BN表面上由丙烷中的C-C键断裂生成，导致各种次级反应途径。在h-BN和硼氧化物支持催化剂上进行的氧化脱氢反应涉及气体相自由基机制，并且可以直接检测到气体相甲基自由基。通过密度泛函理论（DFT）计算提出了详细的反应途径，用于形成各种产物。丙烯主要通过表面反应由丙烷中的C-H键断裂形成。表面介导和气体相反应都对C1和C2产物的形成做出了贡献。这些发现为理解硼基催化剂上的氧化脱氢反应机制提供了新的见解，对于开发高度选择性的烷烃氧化脱氢催化剂具有重要意义。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
