<quotes>
[1] "Recently, another very unusual adsorption property of CuZSM-5 zeolites has been reported by Serykh and Kazansky in refs. 12 and 13. They found that adsorption of dihydrogen by the reduced over-exchanged CuZSM-5 results in more than 1000 cm1 low-frequency shift of the HH stretching vibration,which has never been observed before for H2 adsorbed by any other cationic forms of zeolites or by oxides."
[2] "On the other hand, during the last 20 years a great number of compounds have been reported for oxidative addition of H2 to transition metal complexes which contain intact molecular dihydrogen.1422 These systems constitute a special class of s-bond complexes. The vibrational properties of the MH2 moiety in these systems1517,20 are very similar to those ob- served in the case of H2 adsorption by CuZSM-5 zeolite in refs. 12 and 13."
[3] "Indeed, analysis of the components of the adsorption energy of H2 by Cu1 cations, carried out within the cluster approach by Solans-Monfort et al.,23 revealed the s-bonding of adsorbed hydrogen."
[4] "However, most of these works were aimed on the interaction of adsorbed molecules with the strong Lewis acids when no s-type complexes were formed upon adsorption."
[5] "Indeed, our recent investigations of hydrogen or light alkanes adsorption by different cationic forms of zeolites2429 showed that the ion exchanged transition metal cations usually exhibit very similar adsorption properties both with respect to H2 and to light paraffin adsorption (see for instance refs. 26 and 28)."
[6] "The interest in Cu1 as a compensating ion in zeolite framework is firstly connected with its ability to form the very unusual s-type adsorption complexes with hydrogen and,secondly, with its high affinity to light alkanes."
[7] "Our recent investigations of hydrogen or light alkanes adsorption by different cationic forms of zeolites2429 showed that the ion exchanged transition metal cations usually exhibit very similar adsorption properties both with respect to H2 and to light paraffin adsorption (see for instance refs. 26 and 28)."
[8] "As shown by the gas-phase DFT calculations, CH4Cu1 binding energy is equal to 16.821.43 kcal mol1.40 This is significantly larger than that for the other cations, such as Li1 (8.2 kcal mol1)38 or Mg21 (7.6 kcal mol1).41"
[9] "These results and the lower polarizing ability of Cu1 cations as against Zn21 cations with the only partially compensated positive charge26 indicate that the unusually strong perturba- tion of ethane by interaction with univalent copper cations has different nature than that suggested for ZnZSM-5 zeolite."
[10] "In the similar way we can suggest that unusually strong perturbation of ethane adsorbed by Cu1 cations could be also explained with formation of the similar s-complexes of Cu1 ions with adsorbed C2H6."
[11] "Formation of both Z1 and Z2 complexes should result in the stronger lowering of the symmetry of adsorbed ethane from D3d to Cs."
[12] "These results of theoretical calculations are in a reasonably good agreement with the above discussed experimental data."
[13] "One can see that both the experimental results and theore- tical calculations show that adsorption of ethane by Cu(I)- ZSM-5 results in a very strong perturbation of two CH stretching vibrations of adsorbed molecules."
[14] "However, unlike ethane adsorption by ZnZSM-5, the heating of the copper modified sample in the ethane atmosphere at the temperatures up to 673 K does not result in heterolytic dissociative adsorption."
[15] "For both adsorption complexes the CH bonds involved in the bonding with the Cu1 ions are considerably longer in comparison with the same values calculated for the free C2H6 molecule, while the rest of CH bonds of adsorbed ethane are perturbed insignificantly."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The reduced over-exchanged CuZSM-5 zeolites exhibit an unusual adsorption property where hydrogen adsorption results in a more than 1000 cm1 low-frequency shift of the HH stretching vibration.
2. These systems of hydrogen addition to transition metals are classified as special s-bond complexes, with their vibrational properties being similar to those observed in hydrogen adsorption by CuZSM-5 zeolites.
3. The s-bonding of adsorbed hydrogen by copper cations was confirmed through cluster approach analysis by Solans-Monfort et al.
4. Most studies focused on interactions with strong Lewis acids, where no s-type complexes were formed.
5. Ion exchanged transition metal cations in zeolites show similar adsorption properties for hydrogen and light alkanes, as seen in references 26 and 28.
6. Copper is of interest due to its ability to form unusual s-type adsorption complexes with hydrogen and its affinity towards light alkanes.
7. Ion exchanged transition metal cations in zeolites demonstrate similar adsorption properties for hydrogen and light alkanes, as evidenced in references 24-29.
8. Methane adsorption onto copper has a significantly higher binding energy compared to lithium and magnesium.
9. The strong perturbation of ethane by copper cations is distinct from that observed in zinc-modified zeolites.
10. The strong perturbation of ethane by copper can be explained by the formation of s-type complexes with adsorbed ethane.
11. The formation of Z1 and Z2 complexes leads to a stronger decrease in the symmetry of adsorbed ethane.
12. Theoretical calculations align well with the experimental findings.
13. Ethane adsorption by Cu(I)-ZSM-5 results in a significant perturbation of the CH stretching vibrations.
14. Unlike ethane adsorption by zinc-modified zeolites, the copper-modified sample does not undergo heterolytic dissociative adsorption at temperatures up to 673 K.
15. The CH bonds involved in bonding with copper are notably longer in adsorbed ethane, while other CH bonds are minimally affected.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. CuZSM-5改性后的催化剂在还原条件下，氢吸附导致HH伸缩振动频率降低超过1000cm1，这是其他形式的沸石或氧化物中未观察到的现象。
2. 这些系统中的氢添加到过渡金属中被认为是特殊的s键复合物，其振动性质与CuZSM-5沸石中观察到的氢吸附相似。
3. Solans-Monfort等人的集群方法分析证实了铜阳离子上吸附氢的s键结合。
4. 大多数研究集中在与强路易斯酸的相互作用上，没有形成s型复合物。
5. 离子交换的过渡金属离子在沸石中显示出氢和轻烷烃的相似吸附性质，如参考文献26和28所示。
6. 铜因其能够形成与氢和轻烷烃的异常s型吸附复合物的能力而受到关注。
7. 离子交换的过渡金属离子在沸石中显示出氢和轻烷烃的相似吸附性质，如参考文献24-29所示。
8. 甲烷吸附到铜上的结合能显著高于锂和镁。
9. 铜阳离子与乙烷相互作用的强烈扰动与锌改性沸石中观察到的不同。
10. 铜阳离子与吸附的乙烷形成s型复合物可以解释乙烷的强烈扰动。
11. 形成Z1和Z2复合物导致吸附乙烷的对称性显著降低。
12. 计算结果与实验数据相符。
13. Cu(I)-ZSM-5吸附乙烷导致两个CH伸缩振动的显著扰动。
14. 与锌改性沸石中的乙烷不同，在673K温度下，铜修饰样品不会经历异裂吸附。
15. 与铜相互作用的CH键在吸附乙烷中明显更长，而其他CH键的影响微乎其微。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
