<quotes>
[1] "Recently, another very unusual adsorption property of CuZSM-5 zeolites has been reported by Serykh and Kazansky in refs. 12 and 13. They found that adsorption of dihydrogen by the reduced over-exchanged CuZSM-5 results in more than 1000 cm1 low-frequency shift of the HH stretching vibration,which has never been observed before for H2 adsorbed by any other cationic forms of zeolites or by oxides."
[2] "On the other hand, during the last 20 years a great number of compounds have been reported for oxidative addition of H2 to transition metal complexes which contain intact molecular dihydrogen.1422 These systems constitute a special class of s-bond complexes."
[3] "Recently, another very unusual adsorption property of CuZSM-5 zeolites has been reported by Serykh and Kazansky in refs. 12 and 13. They found that adsorption of dihydrogen by the reduced over-exchanged CuZSM-5 results in more than 1000 cm1 low-frequency shift of the HH stretching vibration,which has never been observed before for H2 adsorbed by any other cationic forms of zeolites or by oxides."
[4] "Our recent investigations of hydrogen or light alkanes adsorption by different cationic forms of zeolites2429 showed that the ion exchanged transition metal cations usually exhibit very similar adsorption properties both with respect to H2 and to light paraffin adsorption (see for instance refs. 26 and 28)."
[5] "The quantum chemical calculations911 demonstrated, that such unusual properties of reduced CuZSM-5 can be related to the electron donor properties of Cu1 species, which, in turn, call forth very strong activation of adsorbed molecules."
[6] "Indeed, analysis of the components of the adsorption energy of H2 by Cu1 cations, carried out within the cluster approach by Solans-Monfort et al.,23 revealed the s-bonding of adsorbed hydrogen. In this case the electron donation from the H2(sg) bonding orbital to the partially occupied Cu(4s) orbital combined with the electron back-donation from the (3dp) Cu1 orbital to the antibonding H2(s* u) orbital and also the orbital polarization play a significant role in the H2 adsorption energy,and cause the above mentioned very large bathochromic HH frequency shift."
[7] "As shown by the gas-phase DFT calculations, CH4Cu1 binding energy is equal to 16.821.43 kcal mol1.40 This is significantly larger than that for the other cations, such as Li1 (8.2 kcal mol1)38 or Mg21 (7.6 kcal mol1).41"
[8] "The interest in Cu1 as a compensating ion in zeolite framework is firstly connected with its ability to form the very unusual s-type adsorption complexes with hydrogen and,secondly, with its high affinity to light alkanes."
[9] "The nature of such bonding can be reasonably described by the synergetic combination of the ligand-to-metal donation from the s(CH) orbitals of ethane to the low-occupied Cu1 s-orbital with the metal-to-ligand back donation from the copper dp orbital to the CH s*-orbitals. Both these interactions result in a very strong weakening of the CH bonds and, therefore, in a very large bathochromic shift of the CH stretching frequencies of methyl group contacting with Cu1 ion."
[10] "In the similar way we can suggest that unusually strong perturbation of ethane adsorbed by Cu1 cations could be also explained with formation of the similar s-complexes of Cu1 ions with adsorbed C2H6."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Adsorption of dihydrogen by the reduced over-exchanged CuZSM-5 results in more than 1000 cm1 low-frequency shift of the HH stretching vibration, which has never been observed before for H2 adsorbed by any other cationic forms of zeolites or by oxides.

2. A large number of compounds have been reported for oxidative addition of H2 to transition metal complexes which contain intact molecular dihydrogen, constituting a special class of s-bond complexes.

3. Adsorption of dihydrogen by the reduced over-exchanged CuZSM-5 results in more than 1000 cm1 low-frequency shift of the HH stretching vibration, which has never been observed before for H2 adsorbed by any other cationic forms of zeolites or by oxides.

4. Our recent investigations of hydrogen or light alkanes adsorption by different cationic forms of zeolites showed that the ion exchanged transition metal cations usually exhibit very similar adsorption properties both with respect to H2 and to light paraffin adsorption.

5. The quantum chemical calculations demonstrated that such unusual properties of reduced CuZSM-5 can be related to the electron donor properties of Cu1 species, which, in turn, call forth very strong activation of adsorbed molecules.

6. Analysis of the components of the adsorption energy of H2 by Cu1 cations, carried out within the cluster approach, revealed the s-bonding of adsorbed hydrogen. Electron donation from the H2(sg) bonding orbital to the partially occupied Cu(4s) orbital combined with electron back-donation from the (3dp) Cu1 orbital to the antibonding H2(s* u) orbital and also orbital polarization play a significant role in the H2 adsorption energy.

7. The CH4Cu1 binding energy is equal to 16.821.43 kcal mol1, significantly larger than that for other cations such as Li1 (8.2 kcal mol1) or Mg21 (7.6 kcal mol1).

8. There is interest in Cu1 as a compensating ion in zeolite framework due to its ability to form unusual s-type adsorption complexes with hydrogen and its high affinity to light alkanes.

9. The bonding can be reasonably described by the synergetic combination of ligand-to-metal donation from the s(CH) orbitals of ethane to the low-occupied Cu1 s-orbital and metal-to-ligand back donation from the copper dp orbital to the CH s*-orbitals, resulting in a very strong weakening of the CH bonds and a very large bathochromic shift of the CH stretching frequencies.

10. Unusually strong perturbation of ethane adsorbed by Cu1 cations could be explained by the formation of similar s-complexes of Cu1 ions with adsorbed C2H6.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 过氧化交换的CuZSM-5中吸附的氢气导致HH伸缩振动频率下降超过1000 cm1，这是任何其他阳离子形式的沸石或氧化物吸附的氢气所未观察到的现象。

2. 大量化合物被报告为氧化性添加H2到包含完整分子氢的过渡金属复合物，形成特殊的s键复合物。

3. 过氧化交换的CuZSM-5中吸附的氢气导致HH伸缩振动频率下降超过1000 cm1，这是任何其他阳离子形式的沸石或氧化物吸附的氢气所未观察到的现象。

4. 我们最近对不同阳离子形式的沸石吸附氢或轻烷烃的研究表明，离子交换的过渡金属离子在H2和轻烷烃吸附方面通常表现出非常相似的吸附性质。

5. 量子化学计算表明，这种减少的CuZSM-5的异常性质与Cu1物种的电子供体性质有关，这反过来又强烈激活了吸附分子。

6. 在簇方法下分析H2由Cu1离子的吸附能的成分揭示了吸附氢的s键。从H2(sg)结合轨道到部分占据的Cu(4s)轨道的电子捐赠与从(3dp) Cu1轨道到抗键合H2(s*u)轨道的电子反捐赠以及轨道极化在H2吸附能量中起着重要作用，并且导致上述提到的非常大的HH频率蓝移。

7. CH4Cu1结合能为16.821.43 kcal mol1，远大于其他离子如Li1（8.2 kcal mol1）或Mg21（7.6 kcal mol1）。

8. Cu1作为框架中补偿离子引起兴趣的原因首先是其与氢形成非常不寻常的s型吸附复合物的能力，其次是其对轻烷烃的高亲和力。

9. 这种结合可以合理地描述为从ethane的s(CH)轨道向低占有的Cu1 s轨道的配体到金属捐赠与铜dp轨道到CH s*轨道的金属到配体反捐赠的协同组合，导致CH键的非常强的削弱和CH伸缩频率的非常大的浴色移动。

10. 由Cu1离子吸附的乙烷表现出非常强的扰动可能通过Cu1离子与吸附的C2H6形成的类似s复合物来解释。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
