<quotes>

[1] "A recent study has shown the superior performance of steam-activated Fe-zeolites in the N2O-mediated propane oxidative dehydrogenation, Eq. (1) (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003; Prez-Ramrez and Gallardo-Llamas,2004). Initial propene yields of 24% at 773798 K were achieved, comparable with the highest values reported over V and Mo-based catalysts with O2."
[2] "The remarkable performance of Fe-zeolites has been related to the specificity of N2O as a monooxygen donor and the capability of determined iron forms in the zeolite for coordinating reactive atomic oxygen species able to efficiently dehydrogenate propane"
[3] "A major draw- back of Fe-zeolites in ODHP with N2O is the deactivation by coke. This causes a rapid decrease of the propene yield, al- though the original catalytic activity was completely recov- ered after regeneration in pure oxygen at 773 K for 30 min (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003)."
[4] "The rate of deactivation strongly differs among the zeolites studied,decreasing in the order: Fe-beta > Fe-silicalite > FeZSM-5."
[5] "The different deactivation behaviour of the various iron zeolites cannot be satisfactorily explained at this stage. The behaviour of FeZSM-5 points to the presence of active iron sites with different sensitivity for coke deactivation."
[6] "Catalyst deactivation is a complex process, which may be caused by a series of various phenomena. In the simplest case, according to Moulijn et al. (2001), catalyst deactiva- tion can be caused by: (i) a decrease in the number of ac- tive sites, (ii) a decrease in the quality of the active sites,(iii) a decrease of accessibility of the pore space."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.N2O-mediated propane oxidative dehydrogenation using steam-activated Fe-zeolites has shown superior performance, achieving initial propene yields of 24% at 773-798 K, comparable to the highest values reported over V and Mo-based catalysts with O2. The remarkable performance of Fe-zeolites is attributed to the specificity of N2O as a monooxygen donor and the capability of iron forms in the zeolite to coordinate reactive atomic oxygen species for efficient propane dehydrogenation. However, a major drawback is the deactivation by coke, causing a rapid decrease in propene yield. The rate of deactivation varies among the zeolites studied, decreasing in the order: Fe-beta > Fe-silicalite > FeZSM-5. The behavior of FeZSM-5 suggests the presence of active iron sites with different sensitivity for coke deactivation. Catalyst deactivation is a complex process that can be caused by a decrease in the number of active sites, a decrease in the quality of active sites, or a decrease in accessibility of the pore space.
2.Strategies to address the limitations of catalyst deactivation and stability in N2O-ODHP include tailoring catalyst properties such as active phase, texture, diffusion length, and reaction conditions. Chemical reaction engineering solutions can also be applied, using dedicated reactors with catalyst moving from a reaction zone to a regeneration zone. The feasibility of a cyclically-operated process for continuous propylene production has been demonstrated using two fixed-bed reactors in parallel, alternating between reaction and regeneration cycles. This novel catalytic process can be economically applied in tail-gases of specific chemical processes where N2O is produced in high concentration.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.N2O介导的丙烷氧化脱氢使用蒸汽活化Fe-沸石显示出优越的性能，在773-798 K下实现了24%的初始丙烯产率，与V和Mo基催化剂使用O2报告的最高值相当。Fe-沸石的显著性能归因于N2O作为单氧供体的特异性和沸石中铁形式协调反应性原子氧物种以有效脱氢丙烷的能力。然而，一个主要的缺点是由于焦炭导致的失活，导致丙烯产率的快速下降。失活速率在研究的沸石中差异显著，按以下顺序递减：Fe-beta > Fe-硅沸石 > FeZSM-5。FeZSM-5的行为表明存在对焦炭失活具有不同敏感性的活性铁位点。催化剂失活是一个复杂的过程，可能由一系列各种现象引起。最简单的情况下，根据Moulijn等人(2001)的说法，催化剂失活可能是由以下原因引起的：(i)活性位点数量的减少，(ii)活性位点质量的下降，(iii)孔隙空间可及性的下降。
2.解决N2O-ODHP中催化剂失活和稳定性限制的策略包括调整催化剂性质，如活性相、纹理、扩散长度和反应条件。化学反应工程解决方案也可以应用，使用专用反应器，催化剂从反应区移动到再生区。已经证明了在两个并行的固定床反应器中交替进行反应和再生循环的周期性操作过程的可行性，用于连续生产丙烯。这种新型催化过程可以经济地应用于特定化学过程中产生的尾气中，其中N2O以高浓度产生。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
