<quotes>

[1] "A recent study has shown the superior performance of steam-activated Fe-zeolites in the N2O-mediated propane oxidative dehydrogenation, Eq. (1) (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003; Prez-Ramrez and Gallardo-Llamas,2004). Initial propene yields of 24% at 773798 K were achieved, comparable with the highest values reported over V and Mo-based catalysts with O2."
[2] "The remarkable performance of Fe-zeolites has been related to the specificity of N2O as a monooxygen donor and the capability of determined iron forms in the zeolite for coordinating reactive atomic oxygen species able to efficiently dehydrogenate propane"
[3] "A major draw- back of Fe-zeolites in ODHP with N2O is the deactivation by coke. This causes a rapid decrease of the propene yield, al- though the original catalytic activity was completely recov- ered after regeneration in pure oxygen at 773 K for 30 min (Prez-Ramrez and Kondratenko, 2003)."
[4] "The rate of deactivation strongly differs among the zeolites studied,decreasing in the order: Fe-beta > Fe-silicalite > FeZSM-5."
[5] "The different deactivation behaviour of the various iron zeolites cannot be satisfactorily explained at this stage. The behaviour of FeZSM-5 points to the presence of active iron sites with different sensitivity for coke deactivation."
[6] "The influence of the reaction temperature on the catalytic performance and time-scale for deactivation was investi- gated over FeZSM-5 (Table 1 and Fig. 5). The initial N2O conversion and 773 K increases from 76% at 673 K to 100% at 723 K, while the increase in C3H8 conversion is much less pronounced (from 40% to 50%) and does not increase further at 773 K."
[7] "The lower rate of deactivation at 773 K is associated with the high degree of N2O conversion, showing a residual degree of conversion of 75% as compared to 25% and 15% at 723 and 673 K, respec- tively."
[8] "Upon N2O decomposition, adsorbed atomic oxygen or desorbed O2 participates, at least partially, in the regen- eration of the zeolite surface by oxidation of coke."
[9] "Catalyst deactivation is a complex process, which may be caused by a series of various phenomena. In the simplest case, according to Moulijn et al. (2001), catalyst deactiva- tion can be caused by: (i) a decrease in the number of ac- tive sites, (ii) a decrease in the quality of the active sites,(iii) a decrease of accessibility of the pore space."
[10] "The initial and residual propene yield levels over FeZSM-5 were very similar, suggesting that the number of active sites in the be- ginning of the reaction and in steady-state conditions is not reduced in the regenerated samples. However, the different dynamics of deactivation may be related to a fraction of the active species which is more susceptible towards deactiva- tion or which is not participating in the reaction due to a re- duced accessibility."
[11] "The best action to decrease the rate of coke deactivation is to tailor catalyst properties such as active phase, the tex- ture, the diffusion length, and reaction conditions (Moulijn et al., 2001)."
[12] "Alternatively, chemical reaction engineering solutions can be applied to restore the catalyst activity, using dedicated reactors with catalyst moving from a reaction zone and a regeneration zone."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.N2O-mediated propane oxidative dehydrogenation using steam-activated Fe-zeolites has shown superior performance, achieving initial propene yields of 24% at 773-798 K, comparable to the highest values reported over V and Mo-based catalysts with O2. The remarkable performance of Fe-zeolites is attributed to the specificity of N2O as a monooxygen donor and the capability of determined iron forms in the zeolite for coordinating reactive atomic oxygen species able to efficiently dehydrogenate propane.
2.A major drawback of Fe-zeolites in ODHP with N2O is the deactivation by coke, which causes a rapid decrease of the propene yield. However, the original catalytic activity can be completely recovered after regeneration in pure oxygen at 773 K for 30 min. The rate of deactivation strongly differs among the zeolites studied, decreasing in the order: Fe-beta > Fe-silicalite > FeZSM-5.
3.The different deactivation behavior of the various iron zeolites cannot be satisfactorily explained at this stage. The behavior of FeZSM-5 points to the presence of active iron sites with different sensitivity for coke deactivation. The influence of the reaction temperature on the catalytic performance and time-scale for deactivation was investigated over FeZSM-5. The initial N2O conversion and 773 K increases from 76% at 673 K to 100% at 723 K, while the increase in C3H8 conversion is much less pronounced (from 40% to 50%) and does not increase further at 773 K. The lower rate of deactivation at 773 K is associated with the high degree of N2O conversion, showing a residual degree of conversion of 75% as compared to 25% and 15% at 723 and 673 K, respectively. Upon N2O decomposition, adsorbed atomic oxygen or desorbed O2 participates, at least partially, in the regeneration of the zeolite surface by oxidation of coke.
4.Catalyst deactivation is a complex process, which may be caused by a series of various phenomena. The initial and residual propene yield levels over FeZSM-5 were very similar, suggesting that the number of active sites in the beginning of the reaction and in steady-state conditions is not reduced in the regenerated samples. However, the different dynamics of deactivation may be related to a fraction of the active species which is more susceptible towards deactivation or which is not participating in the reaction due to a reduced accessibility.
5.The best action to decrease the rate of coke deactivation is to tailor catalyst properties such as active phase, texture, diffusion length, and reaction conditions. Alternatively, chemical reaction engineering solutions can be applied to restore the catalyst activity, using dedicated reactors with catalyst moving from a reaction zone and a regeneration zone.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.N2O介导的丙烷氧化脱氢使用蒸汽活化Fe-沸石显示出优越的性能，在773-798 K下实现了24%的初始丙烯产量，与V和Mo基催化剂使用O2报告的最高值相当。Fe-沸石的显著性能归因于N2O作为单氧供体的特异性，以及沸石中确定的铁形式能够协调反应性原子氧物种，有效地脱氢丙烷。
2.Fe-沸石在N2O-ODHP中的主要缺点是焦炭导致的失活，这会导致丙烯产量的快速下降。然而，经过在773 K下纯氧中30分钟的再生，原始催化活性可以完全恢复。不同沸石的失活速率存在显著差异，按以下顺序递减：Fe-beta > Fe-硅沸石 > FeZSM-5。
3.各种铁沸石的不同失活行为目前还无法充分解释。FeZSM-5的行为表明存在对焦炭失活具有不同敏感性的活性铁位点。研究了反应温度对FeZSM-5催化性能和失活时间尺度的影响。在673 K时，初始N2O转化率从76%增加到723 K时的100%，而C3H8转化率的增加则不那么明显（从40%增加到50%），在773 K时没有进一步增加。在773 K时，较低的失活速率与N2O的高转化度有关，与723和673 K时的25%和15%相比，残留转化度为75%。N2O分解后，吸附的原子氧或解吸的O2至少部分参与了通过氧化焦炭对沸石表面的再生。
4.催化剂失活是一个复杂的过程，可能由一系列各种现象引起。FeZSM-5的初始和残留丙烯产量水平非常相似，表明反应开始和稳态条件下的活性位点数量在再生样品中没有减少。然而，失活动力学的不同可能与对失活更敏感或由于可及性降低而不参与反应的活性物种的一部分有关。
5.降低焦炭失活速率的最佳行动是调整催化剂性质，如活性相、纹理、扩散长度和反应条件。或者，可以应用化学反应工程解决方案来恢复催化剂活性，使用专用反应器，催化剂从反应区移动到再生区。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
