Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, making it a significant breakthrough in catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within silicalite-1 zeolites serve as active sites, boosting product desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, demonstrating effective stability enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene. Sn introduction alleviates these issues by diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation within a day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. Although not thermo-neutral, the exothermic reaction augments the energy needed for the endothermic step, allowing ODH to occur at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. This encourages the development of ODH into an industrial technology, but commercial success hinges on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and carbidic phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites, leading to an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt can be encapsulated in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, and atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. Synthesis methods, such as those used for Pt-based catalysts and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, contribute to stabilization through strong bonds and confinement. The use of single-site metal precursors constructs well-defined surface species, while the transformation of zeolite structures stabilizes metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. For instance, the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, developed by Lu et al., showed high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH by enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. A recent advancement is the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated beta (Si-beta), and Pt species are highly dispersed due to strong interactions between Pt and Sn(IV) sites. This catalyst exhibits excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. The introduction of In also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilized metallic Pt particles, and led to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the introduction of promoters. These promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, effectively regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. They suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from alloying with promoters to improve stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced performance through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, particularly for Pt-based catalysts, involve bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved performance. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable and accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization. The benign interaction of these nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, enhancing catalytic stability. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction, resulting in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes can be achieved by controlling the metal particle size and composition. Increasing the particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio leads to higher specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation over PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts. Conversely, decreasing the particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, which improves the catalyst's stability. These findings highlight the importance of fabricating catalysts with optimized particle size and composition to address challenges and optimize performance in industrial dehydrogenation applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. The confined small Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. These findings offer inspiration for designing low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. These catalysts, with optimal composition of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrate high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. The catalyst's performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's stability. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites. The high electron density boosts product desorption, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quotes 1, 4). The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quotes 6, 14, 16). Under harsh conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes (Quotes [2], [3], [4], [5]). This synergy allows ODH to occur at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking, motivating its development for industrial use (Quotes [6], [7]). However, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [181]). Recent advancements include the use of zeolites as supports to achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst that exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quotes [134], [135], [136], [137], [138], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144], [145], [146], [147], [148], [149], [150], [151]). The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ led to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and resulting in higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guide the rational design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. A recent report suggests that a porous copper-aluminum framework material (stabilized by metal oxide) has better performance for propane dehydrogenation than a PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst, indicating the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350°C (Quotes [166], [167], [168], [169], [170], [171], [172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, addressing stability and performance challenges. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the electron density around single-atom-like Pt1 sites, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, making it ultra-stable for high-temperature PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats and the use of CeO2 to trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state prevent sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si modifies the selectivity of Pt catalysts by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements involve the preparation of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, which includes dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with almost unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Specifically, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability by stabilizing metallic Pt particles and reducing surface Pt oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving the dispersion of Pt atoms. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation due to their high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to ameliorate active components and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been studied extensively. Introducing another metal oxide enhances catalytic stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites, significantly improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing expensive platinum usage while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger metal particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio increase specific activity, while reducing carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for PDH. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, after prereduction, achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. Bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH suggest long-term utility for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. These catalysts, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrate high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. The catalyst's stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, crucial for reaction stability. This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into larger Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quote 4). Unlike conventional methods that struggle with alloying Pt and rare-earth elements due to the latter's low chemical potential (quote 1), the silanol nests increase the chemical potential of rare-earth elements, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt (quote 5). The resultant bimetallic nanoparticles, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, show remarkable enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quote 14). Under harsh conditions, these catalysts retain high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion even after 30 days (quote 16), outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts that rapidly deactivate due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity. Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a novel catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes, involving the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloy formation with a second metal to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in the design of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and using hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture. The stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exemplify these strategies. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, making them suitable for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements involve the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. This strategy improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted catalysts exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been studied for stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, which modifies coordination and electronic states for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system exhibits high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being explored to provide stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by preventing the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's design ensures the preservation of atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. This innovation addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, offering near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and exceptional selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, respectively. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. This development addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This interaction also improves propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation, attributed to the unique PtCu bimetallic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. These catalysts, supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrate high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn, features two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensures admirable PDH stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, crucial for stability and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quotes 1, 4). Unlike conventional methods, which struggle to form Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to low chemical potential, the silanol nests allow rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt (quote 6). This results in catalysts with significantly enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quote 14). Under harsh operating conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts (quote 16).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering the energy requirement for dehydrogenation. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent advancements suggest that achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures may be possible with a porous copper-aluminum framework material, where copper provides the active sites and the role of surface oxide species in catalysis is evident. These strategies address the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of Mg2PtO4-like compound and PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration reduces the binding energy of olefins and the tendency towards coke precursors. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and employing single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters. The catalysts exhibit excellent PDH performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Specifically, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy optimizes interaction between Pt and Sn, tunes acid-base properties, and positively impacts propane dehydrogenation catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and rare-earth elements form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are also improved through the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance through microstructure and morphology optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles that can operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution. This catalyst, with preserved atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, exhibits high stability and selectivity to propylene. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. This approach increases productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion, a common issue with hydrogen dilution. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. The real-space Pt LIII EXAFS spectra confirm the mixing of Pt and Sn atoms, consistent with the formation of PtSn intermetallic phases.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that controlling particle size and composition can improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. This design offers high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (with 0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. The confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. This catalyst design addresses challenges in fabrication and performance optimization, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced solution for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, crucial for the catalyst's performance in propane dehydrogenation to propylene (PDH). This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, crucial for stability and regenerability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quote [4]). When applied to late transition metals, this strategy produces Pt alloy catalysts with high catalytic activity and selectivity (quote [6]). The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene. To address this, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion (quote [14]). The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation within a day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days (quote [16]).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH and cracking, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Recent advancements include the use of zeolites as supports to achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites. This minimizes side reactions, leading to higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Further research directions include exploring the potential of porous copper-aluminum framework materials for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around single-atom-like Pt1 sites, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, using hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture and anchor active metals, and transforming zeolite structures to stabilize metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using Al2O3 nanosheets and Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, has proven effective, stabilizing PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions. Pentacoordinate ions in supports disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits high activity and selectivity for PDH, with excellent stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters significantly improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst, in particular, exhibited the best performance during stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy enhances the interaction between Pt and Sn, tunes acid-base properties, and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see improved dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system exhibits high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation due to the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets. The h-BN nanosheets provide a high surface area and abundant edges, terminated as amino groups, making them an appropriate support for the Pt/Cu catalyst. This approach addresses the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further increase propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Hierarchical structures provide stable and accessible active sites, addressing challenges in catalyst design. Reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds shows promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity. The benign interaction of these nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalysts are synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. This results in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles, which exhibit excellent stability and selectivity to propylene. The catalysts can also be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, respectively. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design results in high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, demonstrates propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of around 92%. The active sites are the small metallic Co particles confined in silanols, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, enhancing catalytic stability and performance for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and methane production. This unique bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhanced anti-coking ability and improved selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quote 1, 4). The mesoporous zeolite, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, facilitates the diffusion of rare-earth elements onto Pt, forming Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles (quote 6). These catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction (quote 14, 21). This strategy also allows for the discovery of other transition metal-based alloy catalysts, opening up new opportunities for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements. ODH operates at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, with their defined structure, are used as supports to achieve high metal dispersion, enhancing stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guide the rational design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Computational screening predicts Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies for improved stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, and employing single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These approaches enhance structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This catalyst exhibits excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, which are crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst, in particular, exhibited the best performance during stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilized metallic Pt particles, and led to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs are added to form alloys, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for dehydrogenation, with alloying enhancing its performance. Metal oxide catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This system minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for optimized PDH performance, although challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the superior PDH performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts with reconstructed hydrotalcite-like compounds.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing process efficiency by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition, indicating improved stability and efficiency in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The preparation involves Dzwigaj's method followed by calcination, yielding a catalyst that, after prereduction, demonstrates 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosting propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, optimizing performance in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels effectively preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites. These confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters serve as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, with their high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtSn bimetallic catalysts used in industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) processes for decades face issues of rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, which is addressed by alloying with Sn to dilute the Pt surface and prevent coke formation. Researchers have developed a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, enhancing catalytic performance through improved reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, as supports, enable high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. These strategies address the challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects on stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion via ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite layers and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent Pt movement. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to resist sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. The synthesis approach allows for the stabilization of metals through strong bonds, as seen in Pt-based catalysts (Quote 5), and the formation of single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability (Quote 6). Strategies also involve maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals (Quote 7), preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles (Quote 8), and employing single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species (Quote 9). Transforming zeolite structures stabilizes metals (Quote 10), and achieving single-site metals in frameworks (Quote 11) enhances catalyst performance. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely because pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersed and stabilized PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximized surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to adjust electronic properties and enhance stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are improved by forming oxide compounds to enhance dispersion and stability. Adding noble metals or metal oxides boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has been developed for propane dehydrogenation, showcasing high efficiency and stability. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts, support modifications, and single atom sites. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modifications, including ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, and replacement of Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, aim to stabilize Pt. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the superior performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses challenges in catalyst design by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring interaction retention. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (&gt;66%) and &gt;99% selectivity, without decreasing productivity due to hydrogen addition. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains conversion levels, with well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles. Regeneration studies demonstrate partial recovery of activity and selectivity after PDH cycles. This approach avoids the need for propane stream dilution, increasing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes can be achieved by controlling the particle size and composition. Specifically, increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. This design offers high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The catalyst is prepared by Dzwigaj's method, followed by high-temperature calcination, and prereduction under optimal conditions. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieves propane conversion of 72% with 92% propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles on the SiBeta support contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites created by framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, making it a breakthrough in dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost the desorption of products, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances the catalyst's regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina have been used in industrial PDH processes for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene. Sn introduction alleviates these issues by diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods. The presence of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation (CnH2n + 2 + O2 -> CnH2n + H2O). This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts can guide the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, has shown better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350°C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in highly siliceous chabazite or Al2O3 coating through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges. Strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the synthesis procedure anchors active metals while maintaining porous texture.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with PtSn/Al2O3 for PDH, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions, enhancing stability. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy developed highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, exhibit excellent catalytic performance and stability, with high propene selectivity and unchanged activity over four cycles at 550 C. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Specifically, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Pt catalysts, with high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys to improve stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are optimized by introducing another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt-based catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The catalyst's performance is achieved by preserving the atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, this catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies have shown that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation processes. Increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that strategic adjustments in fabrication can optimize catalyst performance and address stability challenges in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of CoSiBeta catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. These particles, easily reducible to metallic Co under H2 or reactant gas, are highly efficient for catalyzing the reaction, as demonstrated by the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. This innovation offers a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst design for PDH, leveraging the earth abundance of Co for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimal 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts arise from the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This diminishes coke formation, suppresses cracking reactions toward lighter hydrocarbons, and curbs methane formation, with the primary enhancement attributed to the unique PtCu bimetallic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles. The strong carbon resistance and stable state of active species, due to the interaction between Pt and Zn, contribute to its stability. This catalyst's composition challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts depend on Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. The challenge in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is addressed by utilizing zeolites with silanol nests, which enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. These catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the selectivity of CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, with copper providing active sites, may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around the nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies: controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. [3], [5], [6], [7], [9], [11], [12] illustrate specific synthesis approaches that achieve these objectives.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals, when added as promoters, enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn and tune acid-base properties, positively impacting propane dehydrogenation performance. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best stability test performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. This led to higher propylene selectivity and stability by promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt dispersion. Pt's affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to improve active species dispersion and catalytic stability. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This system, with h-BN nanosheets providing high surface area and abundant edges terminated as amino groups, optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing platinum usage while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing performance. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable and accessible active sites, crucial for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the exact relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, addressing the challenges of stability and performance optimization. Traditionally, hydrogen dilution and excess tin were used to prevent carbon buildup and alloy segregation, but these strategies reduced efficiency. The new silica-supported catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, achieving high stability and selectivity to propylene. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst preserves atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. It features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles, and a benign interaction with the silica support that prevents segregation and tin oxide phase formation. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene, with minimal deactivation. Regeneration studies show partial recovery of activity and selectivity after PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that strategic design and fabrication can optimize catalyst performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by high-temperature calcination and prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small Co particles confined in silanols act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, affecting performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimal Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This mechanism suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, while also suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the preparation of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 h at 525°C in propane dehydrogenation. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels, these supports disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for PDH. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, which is typically difficult due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enabling the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts outperform conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, showing high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction under harsh conditions. This advancement in catalyst design and fabrication significantly optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the energy requirement for dehydrogenation. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. New catalysts, like a porous copper-aluminum framework material, show promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, reducing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and the use of MgO and CeO2 to prevent sintering via compound formation, are effective. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by anchoring Pt and reducing coke formation. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, and anchoring active metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. The stabilization effect of Pt through strong bonds and the synthesis strategy for zeolite-confined Pt catalysts with high stability are notable examples.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, particularly, has proven effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhanced Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include the creation of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. These catalysts exhibit excellent PDH performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst, in particular, exhibited the best performance during stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilized metallic Pt particles, and led to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and rare-earth elements, form alloys to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to suppress side reactions and inhibit coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are enhanced by introducing another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. Noble metals also enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modifications using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 enhance stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost performance. Hierarchical structures provide more accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite reconstruction positively impacts microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity and selectivity to propylene. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene, with &gt;99% selectivity, and can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity while reducing carbon deposition, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta catalysts. These catalysts, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibit high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Prepared using Dzwigaj's method followed by calcination and prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, affecting catalyst stability and performance. This development addresses challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, offering insights into performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and stability. This strategy addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, due to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensure admirable reaction stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, crucial for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with their high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity over multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. The formation of Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt and form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades. However, Pt metal alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, causing a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. To address these problems, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface with inactive Sn atoms and breaking up coke-generating Pt ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for the alumina support, which boosts the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, the conventional PtSn/alumina catalyst experiences severe coke formation and catalyst deactivation within one day. In contrast, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. The PtREE incorporation in the mesoporous zeolite was conducted by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under an O2 flow and subsequently under H2 at high temperatures. The formation of intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances the catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization by providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity minimizing side reactions. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, potentially outperforming PtSn/Al2O3.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability by anchoring Pt via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies, as evidenced by the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions stabilizing PtSn clusters. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. These strategies allow for tuning and enhancing catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability in bimetallic systems for PDH processes. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were prepared using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation. This resulted in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters also tune acid-base properties, enhancing interaction between Pt and Sn. In-promoted catalysts showed the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and REEs form alloys, suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve Pt dispersion. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are also studied for stability enhancement through the formation of oxide compounds, which modify the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites, improving dispersion and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system exhibits high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts, such as PtIn and PtGa, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity [1,2]. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, enhances stability [3]. Single atom sites on Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 and PtCu alloys optimize propane conversion and propene selectivity [4,5]. Hierarchical structures provide more accessible active sites, improving PDH performance [10]. These advancements aim to overcome challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization, although the exact relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports remains a research focus [6-9].", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by preventing a decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications by achieving near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene without hydrogen addition.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the composition and metal particle size of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing the Sn/Pt ratio and metal particle size boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that strategic design and fabrication can optimize catalyst performance in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared through high-temperature calcination and prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The high catalytic ability and product selectivity of these particles provide inspiration for the design of low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosting propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production. This unique bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhanced stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    