Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving 46% propylene yield and 65-hour stability without regeneration or H2. Its stability, addressing fabrication challenges, is due to Lewis acidic sites from Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and carbon resistance, a breakthrough in catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites, enhancing product desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, effectively enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. This enables rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing operations at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). ODH's energy intensification advantage requires innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [139], [140]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [142], [143], [144]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and carbidic phase formation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing catalytic stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt can be encapsulated in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, and atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight synthesis strategies for enhanced catalytic stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. Pt-based catalysts and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts are stabilized through strong bonds and confinement. Single-site metal precursors construct well-defined surface species, and zeolite structure transformations stabilize metals. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, developed by Lu et al., exhibit high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared using an improved post-synthesis strategy, show excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include using In as a promoter in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. This strategy improves stability by reducing surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and increasing propylene selectivity. In-promoted catalysts exhibit moderate coke deposition and maximize surface Pt species, leading to superior performance and stability in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on the introduction of promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs. These promoters effectively regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from alloying with promoters to improve stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see enhanced performance through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster, which demonstrates high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, thus optimizing design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure or PtCu alloys have shown improved performance. The aim is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research. Promising designs include the use of hierarchical microstructures for stable and accessible active sites, as seen in hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by operating without hydrogen dilution, avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation, enhancing stability. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies emphasize controlling metal particle size and composition to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for dehydrogenation processes. For PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts, increasing particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts ethane dehydrogenation activity, while decreasing size and increasing the ratio reduces carbon deposition, improving stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which utilizes ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This innovation achieves 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity post-prereduction, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, inspiring the design of low-cost, eco-friendly catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the optimized addition of 0.5 wt% copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, boosting propylene selectivity and yield in propane dehydrogenation. The PtCu bimetallic interaction improves anti-coking ability and stability by inhibiting propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppressing coke and methane formation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, featuring a composition that challenges traditional understanding. These catalysts, with a high Zn to low Pt ratio on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibit exceptional stability without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. The stability is attributed to active centers from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This composition offers new directions for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents cluster agglomeration, crucial for stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts. These feature confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in silicalite-1 zeolites, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. Zeolite restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures and motivating its industrial development (Quotes [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7]). Innovative catalyst design, such as the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes by minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity (Quotes [134], [135], [136], [137], [138], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144], [145], [146], [147], [148], [149], [150], [151]). Recent advancements also suggest that a porous copper-aluminum framework material could achieve propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating potential for industrial application (Quotes [166], [167], [168], [169], [170], [171], [172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability and performance. This strategy, exemplified by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, achieves outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, making it ultra-stable for high-temperature applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats and the use of CeO2 to trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state prevent sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si modifies the selectivity of Pt catalysts by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles for improved activity, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture for better accessibility, and using single-site metal precursors for uniform dispersion. These approaches significantly improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to enhanced electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly dispersed Pt species and incorporated Sn species, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using In as a promoter in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. This improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts exhibit optimal performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability by stabilizing metallic Pt particles and reducing surface Pt oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on the strategic introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based systems. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability and performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. PtGa catalyst systems, featuring Ga as a promoter, have been implemented in production plants. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst enhances propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability, addressing platinum usage minimization while maximizing activity. Its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, optimizes design for industrial applications, reducing expensive platinum usage without compromising high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, where doping with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improves Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, such as ZnAl2O4 and Mg(Al)O, boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, as demonstrated by hydrotalcite-like compounds, provide more stable and accessible active sites, leading to superior PDH performance. These advancements aim to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in catalyst design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, avoiding hydrogen dilution. Synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, maintaining activity and selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that increasing the particle size and Sn/Pt ratio in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation enhances stability and performance. Larger particles and higher Sn content boost specific activity and minimize carbon deposition, effectively tackling fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the CoSiBeta catalyst, which features ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Unlike bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles that contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, the CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates superior stability and performance. The earth abundance of Co suggests its long-term utility for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Cu to boost the performance of Pt/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by inhibiting propylene adsorption and suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. These catalysts, featuring Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, demonstrate high propylene yield and exceptional stability. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, crucial for reaction stability. This design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites, enhancing product desorption, propene selectivity, and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining activity after multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts retain high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion even after 30 days, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts that rapidly deactivate due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes leverage oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity (Quote [134], [140], [143]). Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This novel design synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, significantly improving stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with almost no deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and utilizing carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong PtOCe bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture. Zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on strengthening metal-support interactions through methods like support modification, notably effective for improving stability. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance with moderate coke deposition, a high level of surface Pt species, and enhanced reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction in Pt-based catalysts and the use of metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing the dispersion of Pt atoms. PtGa catalyst systems have been implemented in production plants. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, enhance stability through the formation of oxide compounds, which modifies coordination and electronic states for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster, which significantly improves catalytic efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. This addresses the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions, leads to remarkable performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in the enhanced performance of PtIn and PtGa nanoparticles supported on calcined hydrotalcites. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by preventing the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's design ensures the preservation of atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. This innovation addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, offering near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and exceptional selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight the importance of controlling metal particle size and composition to enhance catalytic stability. Larger particle sizes increase specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio minimizes carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles address cracking and carbon deposition, optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading enhances propylene selectivity and yield. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, achieves high propylene yield and exceptional 65-hour stability at 525°C in propane dehydrogenation, without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. The Pt-Zn interaction ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, challenging traditional understanding and offering new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for stability and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. These confined GaPt alloy clusters, with high electron density, boost propene desorption and selectivity, enhancing formation rate. Zeolite restriction improves regeneration stability, sustaining unchanged catalytic activity post-multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These defects enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Unlike conventional methods, the silanol nests allow rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. This results in catalysts with significantly enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements (Quote [2]). This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it industrially attractive (Quote [5]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [10]). The use of zeolites as supports, demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [139]). This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143]). Recent advancements suggest that achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures may be possible with a porous copper-aluminum framework material, where copper provides the active sites and the role of surface oxide species in catalysis is evident (Quote [166]). These strategies address the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing catalytic stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating a stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formations. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by preventing sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering and coking. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and using single-site metal precursors. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites. These advancements improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to enhanced electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in high dispersion of Pt species and excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, and Ca as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on promoter use for supported metal catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from alloying with promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and rare-earth elements, which suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see improved dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation uses a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster, improving propane dehydrogenation efficiency. This system minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use by leveraging the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet defects.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing performance. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O further boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys increase propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure, particularly hydrotalcite reconstruction, provide stable, accessible active sites, optimizing microstructure and morphology for enhanced PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles. These catalysts can operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, addressing fabrication challenges by preventing Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. This approach increases productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion, a common issue with hydrogen dilution. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, indicating that controlling particle size and composition enhances catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which uses ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, this design addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, with confined Co particles serving as active sites. Bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The catalyst is eco-friendly, low-cost, and advanced for industrial PDH applications, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, which optimizes performance and stability. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, featuring optimized Zn and Pt content. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance, crucial for enhanced performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. This innovation boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation within a day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. This energy-efficient process requires innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Notably, the use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Future research directions include exploring the potential of porous copper-aluminum framework materials for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising pathway for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation, as shown by computational calculations and experiments.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. This strategy results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt particles, and selecting carriers like Al2O3, MgAl2O4, and CeO2 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration and sintering. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition further prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity, with B being particularly effective due to its strong covalent bond with Pt clusters and reduced coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification. Al2O3 nanosheets and Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites stabilize PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions, as demonstrated by Lu et al. and Ma et al. Pentacoordinate ions in supports disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, shows high activity and selectivity for PDH, with excellent stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys to suppress side reactions and inhibit coke deposition, improving stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see enhanced dispersion and stability through the addition of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system, with its unique geometry maintained by strong bonding interactions, exhibits high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The h-BN nanosheets serve as an appropriate support, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure or PtCu alloys, increase propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide stable, accessible active sites, addressing design challenges. Reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds enhances microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity. The benign interaction of these nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalysts are synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. This results in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles, which exhibit excellent stability and selectivity to propylene. The catalysts can also be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that larger metal particle size enhances specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio minimizes carbon deposition. These findings emphasize the importance of controlling particle size and composition for improved catalytic stability and performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve adding copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability, challenging traditional understanding with its design of more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn catalysts. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance, offering new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, effectively dispersing clusters. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites, addressing fabrication challenges. This strategy boosts propene selectivity and formation rate, while the zeolite enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, thus optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests (quote 1, 4). These silanol nests enable the diffusion of rare-earth elements onto Pt, forming stable Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles (quote 6). The resultant intermetallic compounds exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction (quote 14, 21). This strategy addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, opening up new opportunities for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and allowing operations at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH processes. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, with their defined structure, are used as supports to achieve high metal dispersion, enhancing stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Recent advancements indicate that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, stabilized by metal oxides, have better performance for propane dehydrogenation than traditional Pt-based catalysts, suggesting the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth, and sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. This design synergizes geometric and electronic effects, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, leading to the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. It exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite and Al2O3 overcoats, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Computational screening predicts Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and employing single-site metal precursors. These approaches improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. A recent advancement involves the creation of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, including dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This catalyst exhibits excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene selectivity and stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide systems. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs are added to Pt-based catalysts to form alloys, which suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve stability. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it an effective catalyst for dehydrogenation, with alloying further enhancing its performance. Metal oxide catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst, designed with a unique geometry maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects, demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. It minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, achieved by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further increase propane conversion and propene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. This innovation addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase, enhancing the catalyst's stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling particle size and composition in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, reduces carbon deposition, and optimizes performance for industrial applications, addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta design, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and calcination, it achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small metallic Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, impacting performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by enhancing catalytic performance and anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves high propylene yield and stability in direct dehydrogenation. Its stability is due to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new design avenues, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which effectively prevents cluster agglomeration during cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites, serving as active sites for propane dehydrogenation and maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after multiple cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling stable and highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quotes 1, 4, 6). This strategy addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, producing Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals like PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity (quote 7). The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods (quotes 14, 21). These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a more energy-efficient alternative to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [5], [6]). ODH couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, including the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites (Quote [134], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143]). These strategies address the challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion effects. This design, exemplified by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite layers and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent Pt movement. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to resist sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture. Pt-based catalysts exhibit stabilization through strong PtOCe bonds, while zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts demonstrate high stability. Strategies also involve anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and employing single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. Transforming zeolite structures stabilizes metals, and achieving single-site metals in frameworks boosts performance. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification, which is notably effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions. Support modification's importance is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts through an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination and metal impregnation. These catalysts exhibit excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using In as a promoter in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. This improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance with moderate coke deposition, maximized surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve active components and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are optimized by forming oxide compounds to enhance dispersion and stability. The introduction of noble metals or metal oxides into catalytic systems significantly boosts performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high efficiency and stability. The unique cluster geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects, boosts catalytic performance while minimizing platinum usage, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts, support modifications, and single atom sites. Bimetallic catalysts, such as Pt doped with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modifications, like using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, and replacing Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, stabilize Pt. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the superior performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses challenges in catalyst design by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (&gt;66%) and &gt;99% selectivity, without decreasing productivity due to hydrogen addition. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains conversion levels, with well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles. This approach avoids the need for propane stream dilution, increasing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes focus on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts, where increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts ethane dehydrogenation activity and reduces carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and optimized calcination, this catalyst achieves high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles in silanols serve as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, achieving high propylene selectivity and yield in propane dehydrogenation. Optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts performance by inhibiting propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppressing coke formation and methane production, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, boosting product desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods, even under harsh conditions. This strategy addresses catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications, offering a significant enhancement over conventional PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation (CnH2n + 2 + O2 -> CnH2n + H2O) to lower energy requirements and operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). This synergy motivates the development of ODH for industrial use, but commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [139], [140], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143], [144]). A porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, has shown better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350°C (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over a month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong Pt interaction. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the synthesis procedure anchors active metals while maintaining porous texture, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification. Lu et al. and Ma et al. demonstrated enhanced stability using PtSn/Al2O3 and Ga-modified Mg(Al)O, respectively, where pentacoordinate ions stabilized metal clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts with excellent performance and stability in PDH, addressing challenges in catalyst design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce, In, La, Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit optimal performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, achieving higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Pt catalysts, with high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys to improve stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are optimized by introducing another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy uses boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters, enhancing propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability. This design minimizes platinum usage and maximizes activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications by significantly boosting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure, particularly hydrotalcite reconstruction, provide stable, accessible active sites for PDH reaction, improving performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, addressing carbon buildup and alloy segregation. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation without hydrogen addition, achieving high stability and selectivity to propylene. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst retains atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation. Notably, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, enhancing industrial application potential.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in adjusting the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts have enhanced stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts activity and reduces carbon deposition, demonstrating strategic fabrication adjustments that optimize catalyst performance and address stability challenges in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes feature CoSiBeta catalysts with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. This innovation addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly design utilizing earth-abundant Co for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimal 0.5 wt% Cu loading significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and diminishes coke formation, suppressing cracking reactions toward lighter hydrocarbons and curbing methane formation. This interaction is primarily responsible for the enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, notably 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, with strong carbon resistance. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures a stable state of active species, challenging traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability during cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Utilizing zeolites with silanol nests enables rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. These catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the selectivity of CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, with copper providing active sites, may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation, as demonstrated for Ni catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability in direct dehydrogenation. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over a month, addressing design and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoating via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability akin to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight innovative synthesis strategies: controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies, as demonstrated in [3], [5], [6], [7], [9], [11], and [12], enhance structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, exhibiting excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using promoters like Ce, In, La, and Fe in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed superior stability with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability by promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on the strategic use of promoters. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, effectively regulating active compounds, suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt dispersion. Pt, known for its high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, is optimized through the addition of metal promoters, forming alloys that improve stability and catalytic performance. PtGa catalyst systems, for instance, have been implemented in production plants. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the addition of another metal oxide, which improves the dispersion of active species and catalytic stability under applied conditions. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes employs boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters for propane dehydrogenation. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial use by maintaining the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster through strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization without compromising activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, which improve dispersion and electron transfer by doping with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu. Modifying Al2O3 support with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing it with other oxides, boosts stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable and accessible active sites, crucial for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the exact relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, addressing stability and performance optimization challenges. Traditionally, hydrogen dilution and excess tin were used to prevent carbon buildup and alloy segregation, reducing efficiency. The new silica-supported catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, achieving high stability and selectivity to propylene. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst preserves atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, featuring atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene with minimal deactivation. Regeneration studies show partial recovery of activity and selectivity after PDH/regeneration cycles, highlighting the catalyst's robustness and potential for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, focus on controlling particle size and composition to enhance stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, reduces carbon deposition, and optimizes catalysts for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The 0.5CoSiBeta variant, prepared by high-temperature calcination and prereduction, shows improved performance. Small Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, impacting performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, which optimizes performance and stability. An optimal Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity and yield, while the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu enhances anti-coking ability, suppressing coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. Its composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, improving stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for PDH, which boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, which is typically difficult due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enabling the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts outperform conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, showing high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling operation at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH processes [2,3,5,6]. Commercial ODH technologies rely on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to develop selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes [134]. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. New catalysts, like a porous copper-aluminum framework material, show promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures [166,167], highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, reducing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability in direct dehydrogenation. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating a stable Pt1 site. This design, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and the use of MgO and CeO2 to prevent sintering via compound formation, are effective. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by anchoring Pt and reducing coke formation. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and anchoring active metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, the stabilization effect of Pt through strong bonds and the synthesis strategy for zeolite-confined Pt catalysts with high stability have been reported.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation emphasize support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches, with support modification being the most effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, featuring pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, and Pt catalysts with Ga addition to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, which disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters, demonstrate enhanced stability. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also underscore the significance of support modification. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation, incorporate Sn species into the Si-beta framework and disperse Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters, achieving excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include using Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed superior stability, reduced coke deposition, and a high level of surface Pt species. In's role in reducing surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and increasing propylene selectivity and stability addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of promoters in Pt-based catalysts and optimization of metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and rare-earth elements form alloys with Pt, improving stability and performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are enhanced by introducing another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. Noble metals also enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation uses a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster, which optimizes platinum usage and catalytic activity. This design, with its unique geometry maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheets, improves efficiency and stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other materials enhances stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost performance. Hierarchical structures provide more accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite reconstruction positively impacts microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity and selectivity to propylene. The synthesis process begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, maintaining stability and selectivity. The catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene with &gt;99% selectivity and can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight the role of particle size and composition in enhancing stability and performance. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta catalysts, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, calcination, and prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity, demonstrating high activity and selectivity. The confined Co particles act as active sites, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, and offering insights into performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity and yield, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, enhancing anti-coking ability and stability for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, showcasing significant stability and propylene yield. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and carbon resistance due to Pt-Zn interaction. This challenges traditional understanding and offers new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Optimizing Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters, addressing fabrication challenges and improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The high electron density of confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity over cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. The formation of Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt and form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE/zeolite showed a high initial propane conversion of 40% and underwent extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, significantly outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity minimizing side reactions (Quote [134], [135], [136], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, potentially outperforming PtSn/Al2O3 (Quote [166], [170]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. This strategy results in the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C with minimal deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability by anchoring Pt via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. Notably, the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in support modification have significantly enhanced the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes. Techniques like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites have proven effective in stabilizing PtSn clusters and improving electronic interactions. Notably, the PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts have achieved high activity, selectivity, and stability in PDH processes. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits excellent catalytic performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity, maintaining stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using promoter metals in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, which improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. In-promoted catalysts exhibit optimal stability with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, boosting propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation address fabrication challenges and optimize performance. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and REEs are introduced to Pt-based catalysts, improving dispersion, suppressing side reactions, and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation, and alloying with promoters forms intermetallic compounds that enhance stability. PtGa catalysts are used in industrial processes, and In and Zn are economical promoters. Other metals like Fe, Cu, and Co adjust electronic properties for stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are studied for stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, which modifies coordination and electronic states, improving dispersion and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster, improving propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability. This addresses challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity, optimizing design for industrial applications through reduced platinum content and maintained high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include the development of bimetallic catalysts like PtIn and PtGa, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, enhances stability and accessibility of active sites. Single atom sites on Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 and PtCu alloys optimize propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more accessible active sites, improving PDH performance. These strategies aim to overcome challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization, focusing on the relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation avoids hydrogen dilution, optimizing productivity and conversion limits. Synthesis starts with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, ensuring atom mixing during reduction and the PDH reaction. The benign silica interaction prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, without hydrogen addition, and can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% initial activity after three cycles. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in the strategic design of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts have shown that increasing the Sn/Pt ratio and metal particle size enhances ethane dehydrogenation stability and performance by boosting specific activity and reducing carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The catalyst's high efficiency and selectivity inspire the development of low-cost, eco-friendly catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, demonstrating progress in addressing catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the role of Cu in enhancing Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts performance and anti-coking ability, attributed to the bimetallic interaction between Pt and Cu. This interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production, thus enhancing stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    