Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. It achieves a 46% propylene yield and 65-hour stability at 525°C without regeneration or H2, addressing fabrication challenges. Its stability is due to Lewis acidic sites from Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and carbon resistance, a breakthrough in catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. A high content of Al3+penta sites prevents the agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters during consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability, and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites, enhancing product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, effectively enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. This enables rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Pt alloy catalysts, such as PtCo, show high catalytic activity and selectivity. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing operations at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). ODH's energy intensification advantage requires innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [139], [140]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [142], [143], [144]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and carbidic phase formation, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C. This catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt can be encapsulated in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, and atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. Synthesis methods for Pt-based catalysts and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts contribute to stabilization through strong bonds and confinement. The use of single-site metal precursors constructs well-defined surface species, while the transformation of zeolite structures stabilizes metals. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, developed by Lu et al., showed high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This catalyst exhibits excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of In as a promoter in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. This approach significantly improves stability by reducing surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and increasing propylene selectivity. In-promoted catalysts exhibit moderate coke deposition and maximize surface Pt species, leading to superior performance and stability in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on the introduction of promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, effectively regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from alloying with promoters to improve stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see enhanced performance through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, optimizing design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved performance. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, as highlighted by the use of promoters and modified supports. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable and accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization. The benign interaction of these nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, enhancing catalytic stability. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction, resulting in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the role of controlling metal particle size and composition in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for dehydrogenation processes. Increasing particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation over PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts, while decreasing size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, improving stability. Optimizing particle size and composition addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst achieves 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity post-prereduction. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. These findings inspire the design of low-cost, eco-friendly catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu bimetallic interaction enhances anti-coking ability and stability by inhibiting propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppressing coke and methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. These catalysts, with a composition of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibit exceptional stability over extended periods without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. The stability is attributed to active centers from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new directions for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3, where high Al3+penta site content prevents cluster agglomeration, improving stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites. The high electron density boosts propene selectivity and formation rate. Zeolite restriction improves regeneration stability, with unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures and motivating its industrial development (Quotes [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7]). Innovative catalyst design, such as the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes by minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity (Quotes [134], [135], [136], [137], [138], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144], [145], [146], [147], [148], [149], [150], [151]). Recent advancements also suggest that a porous copper-aluminum framework material could achieve propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating potential for industrial application (Quotes [166], [167], [168], [169], [170], [171], [172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, addressing stability and performance challenges. This strategy results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, making it ultra-stable for high-temperature PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats and the use of CeO2 to trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state prevent sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si modifies the selectivity of Pt catalysts by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles for improved activity, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture for better accessibility, and using single-site metal precursors for uniform dispersion. These strategies significantly improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for preparing highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species. This leads to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity, while strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters, notably In, improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts exhibit optimal performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability by stabilizing metallic Pt particles and reducing surface Pt oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based systems. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt to improve stability and performance. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability, addressing platinum usage minimization while maximizing activity. The catalyst's unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, optimizes design for industrial applications, reducing expensive platinum usage without compromising high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Doping with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improves Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds, leading to superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the exact Pt-M-support relationship and optimizing hierarchical microstructures for enhanced accessibility and stability.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, avoiding hydrogen dilution. Synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, maintaining activity and selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts boosts stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger particle size and a higher Sn/Pt ratio increase specific activity and reduce carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with CoOx species easily reducing to metallic Co under H2 or reactant gas. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, contrasting with the CoSiBeta's performance. The earth abundance of Co suggests its long-term utility for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the use of Cu to boost the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. These catalysts demonstrate high propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, crucial for reaction stability. This design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters, ensuring stability and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption, propene selectivity, and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Unlike conventional methods, the silanol nests increase the chemical potential of rare-earth elements, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt. The resultant bimetallic nanoparticles, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, show remarkable enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts retain high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion even after 30 days, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts that rapidly deactivate due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity (Quote [134], [140], [143]). Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel design: the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This design synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture through hydrothermal synthesis. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strengthening metal-support interactions through methods like the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being notably effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements involve the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. This strategy improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance with moderate coke deposition, a high level of surface Pt species, and enhanced reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. They also enhance the dispersion of Pt atoms for better stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been studied for stability enhancement through the formation of oxide compounds, which modifies coordination and electronic states for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system significantly improves catalytic efficiency for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions, leads to remarkable performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as evidenced by the enhanced performance of PtIn and PtGa nanoparticles supported on calcined hydrotalcites [2]. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure [4] and PtCu single atom alloys [5] have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by preventing the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's design ensures the preservation of atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. This innovation addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, offering near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and exceptional selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight the role of controlling metal particle size and composition in enhancing catalytic stability. Increasing particle size boosts specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. Confined Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, demonstrates high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C in propane dehydrogenation without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, challenging traditional understanding and offering new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, crucial for stability and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites. These confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, with high electron density boosting product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These defects enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Unlike conventional methods, the silanol nests allow rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. This results in catalysts with significantly enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering the energy requirement for dehydrogenation (Quote [2]). This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive industrial technology (Quote [5]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [10]). The use of zeolites as supports, demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [139]). This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143]). Recent advancements suggest that achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures may be possible with a porous copper-aluminum framework material, where copper provides the active sites and the role of surface oxide species in catalysis is evident (Quote [166]). These strategies address the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications (Quote [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formations. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by preventing sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering and coking. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and employing single-site metal precursors. Specific examples include the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and the stabilization of highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to enhanced electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in high dispersion of Pt species and excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve introducing metals like Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, and Ca as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters. For Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, adding promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and rare-earth elements forms alloys or intermetallic compounds, which suppress side reactions and inhibit coke deposition, improving stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system improves propane dehydrogenation efficiency by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet defects, optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications, reducing expensive platinum while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure, particularly hydrotalcite reconstruction, provide stable, accessible active sites, optimizing microstructure and morphology for enhanced PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles. These catalysts can operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, addressing fabrication challenges by preventing Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. This approach increases productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion, a common issue with hydrogen dilution. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation show that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, suggesting that controlling particle size and composition enhances catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. This design addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, with confined Co particles as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The catalyst is low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, which optimizes performance and stability. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, featuring higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance, crucial for propane dehydrogenation to propylene (PDH). This design challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, boosting product desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. When applied to late transition metals, this strategy produces Pt alloy catalysts with high catalytic activity and selectivity. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation within a day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. This energy-efficient process requires innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Notably, the use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Future research directions include exploring the potential of porous copper-aluminum framework materials for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising pathway for industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around single-atom-like Pt1 sites, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt particles, and selecting carriers like Al2O3, MgAl2O4, and CeO2 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration and sintering. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition further prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity, with B being particularly effective due to its strong covalent bond with Pt clusters and reduced coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification, notably using Al2O3 nanosheets and Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, which stabilize PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions. Pentacoordinate ions in supports disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, demonstrates high activity and selectivity for PDH, with excellent stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on the strategic introduction of promoters. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to suppress side reactions and inhibit coke deposition, improving stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced dispersion and stability through the addition of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system, with its unique geometry maintained by strong bonding interactions between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, exhibits high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The h-BN nanosheets, providing a high surface area and abundant edges terminated as amino groups, serve as an appropriate support for the Pt/Cu catalyst, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure or PtCu alloys, increase propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide stable, accessible active sites, addressing design challenges. Reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds enhances microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity. The benign interaction of these nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalysts are synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. This results in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles, which exhibit excellent stability and selectivity to propylene. The catalysts can also be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that increasing metal particle size boosts specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition. These insights underscore the significance of controlling particle size and composition for enhanced catalytic stability and performance, tackling fabrication challenges and optimizing for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which enhances catalytic stability for propane dehydrogenation. The 0.5CoSiBeta variant achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The unique bimetallic interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, thus improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, notably the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with adjustable Al3+penta site levels, effectively disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content notably prevents cluster agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing key fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost propene selectivity and formation rate, while the zeolite enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, thus optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests (quote 1, 4). These silanol nests enable the diffusion of rare-earth elements onto Pt, forming stable Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles (quote 6). The resultant intermetallic compounds exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction (quote 14, 21). This strategy addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, opening up new opportunities for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and allowing operations at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Zeolites, with their defined structure, are used as supports to achieve high metal dispersion, enhancing stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [136], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). Recent advancements indicate that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, stabilized by metal oxides, have better performance for propane dehydrogenation than traditional Pt-based catalysts, suggesting the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166], [167]). Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth, and sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent innovations in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. This design synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, with Pb blocking three-fold Pt3 sites and Ca enriching single-atom-like Pt1 sites. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Computational screening predicts Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and employing single-site metal precursors. These approaches improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. A recent advancement involves the creation of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, which includes dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This catalyst exhibits excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene selectivity and stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide systems. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs are added to Pt-based catalysts to form alloys, which suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve stability. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it an effective catalyst for dehydrogenation, with alloying further enhancing its performance. Metal oxide catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation due to its unique geometry maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets. The system minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, created by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further increase propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for optimized PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. This innovation addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes involve controlling particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio improves specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, demonstrating enhanced stability and efficiency. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design, prepared by Dzwigaj's method and calcination, achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small metallic Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, impacting performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, enhancing catalytic performance and anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content effectively prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites. These catalysts serve as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtSn bimetallic catalysts used in industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) processes for decades face issues of rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, which is addressed by alloying with Sn to dilute the Pt surface and prevent coke formation. Researchers have developed a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, enhancing catalytic performance through improved reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a more energy-efficient alternative to non-ODH processes. ODH couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures (Quote [2], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, including the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites (Quote [134], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143]). These strategies address the challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion via ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite layers and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent Pt movement. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to resist sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture. Pt-based catalysts demonstrate stabilization through strong PtOCe bonds (Quote 5), while zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability (Quote 6). Strategies also involve anchoring active metals (Quote 7), preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles (Quote 8), and employing single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species (Quote 9). Transforming zeolite structures stabilizes metals (Quote 10), and achieving single-site metals in frameworks (Quote 11) boosts performance. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance supported metal catalyst stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification, with the latter being notably effective. Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH achieved high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions. Support modification's importance is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination and metal impregnation. These catalysts exhibit excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using promoter metals (notably In) in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximized surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds. Promoters such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to adjust electronic properties and enhance stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are improved by forming oxide compounds to enhance dispersion and stability. Adding noble metals or metal oxides boosts catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst for propane dehydrogenation exhibits high efficiency and stability. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, boosts catalytic efficiency while minimizing platinum usage, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts, support modifications, and single atom sites. Bimetallic catalysts, such as Pt doped with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modifications, like using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, and replacing Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, stabilize Pt. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the superior performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses challenges in catalyst design by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (&gt;66%) and &gt;99% selectivity, without decreasing productivity due to hydrogen addition. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains conversion levels, with well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles. This approach avoids the need for propane stream dilution, increasing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes involve controlling particle size and composition in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts. Increasing the metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts ethane dehydrogenation activity and decreases carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and optimized calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieving 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing stability and regenerability. A high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods, even under harsh conditions. This strategy addresses catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications, offering a significant enhancement over conventional PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation (CnH2n + 2 + O2 -> CnH2n + H2O) to lower energy requirements and operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes. This synergy motivates the development of ODH for industrial use, but commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, has shown better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350°C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic promotion effects. Notably, the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong Pt interaction. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies enhance structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the synthesis procedure anchors active metals while maintaining porous texture.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. demonstrated enhanced stability in PDH using PtSn/Al2O3, where γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions stabilized PtSn clusters. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy developed highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation. These catalysts exhibited excellent performance and stability, with high propene selectivity and unchanged activity over four cycles at 550 C, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include using Ce, In, La, Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit optimal performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, thus achieving higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Pt catalysts, with high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys to improve stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are optimized by introducing another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters, enhancing propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet defects, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt-based catalysts for better PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, addressing carbon buildup and alloy segregation challenges. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation without hydrogen addition, achieving high stability and selectivity to propylene. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst retains atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation. Notably, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, enhancing industrial application potential.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that adjusting the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts activity and decreases carbon deposition, demonstrating that strategic fabrication adjustments can optimize catalyst performance and address stability challenges in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature CoSiBeta catalysts with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This innovation offers a low-cost, eco-friendly design for PDH, utilizing earth-abundant Co for long-term utility, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimal 0.5 wt% Cu loading significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and diminishes coke formation, suppressing cracking reactions toward lighter hydrocarbons and curbing methane formation. This interaction is primarily responsible for the enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. Specifically, the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, with strong carbon resistance and a stable state of active species due to the interaction between Pt and Zn. This catalyst's composition challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability during cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Utilizing zeolites with silanol nests enables rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. These catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the selectivity of CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, with copper providing active sites, may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies: controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies enhance structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. Specific synthesis approaches, as illustrated in [3], [5], [6], [7], [9], [11], and [12], achieve these objectives by stabilizing Pt through strong bonds, encapsulating Pt in zeolites, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and anchoring single-site metals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance supported metal catalyst stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters. These catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters like Ce, In, La, and Fe in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed superior stability with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability by promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds. Promoters such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt dispersion. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the addition of another metal oxide, which improves active species dispersion and catalytic stability. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalytic stability and efficiency. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, optimizes catalyst design for industrial use by reducing platinum usage without compromising activity. This advancement addresses fabrication challenges and performance optimization in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing performance. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, boosts stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable and accessible active sites, crucial for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the exact relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, addressing stability and performance optimization challenges. Traditionally, hydrogen dilution and excess tin were used to prevent carbon buildup and alloy segregation, reducing efficiency. The new silica-supported catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, achieving high stability and selectivity to propylene. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst preserves atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, featuring atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene with minimal deactivation. Regeneration studies show partial recovery of activity and selectivity after PDH/regeneration cycles, highlighting the catalyst's robustness and potential for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the strategic design of supported metal catalysts, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, by controlling particle size and composition to boost stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, optimizing catalysts for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by high-temperature calcination and prereduction, demonstrates improved performance. Small Co particles confined in silanols act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, affecting performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimal Cu loading enhances propylene selectivity and yield. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu boosts anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 h in propane dehydrogenation. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, improving stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for PDH, boosting product desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, which is typically difficult due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enabling the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts outperform conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, showing high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and allowing operation at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes [2,3,5,6]. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes [134]. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. New catalysts, like a porous copper-aluminum framework material, show promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures [166,167], highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, reducing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and the use of MgO and CeO2 to prevent sintering via compound formation, are effective. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by anchoring Pt and reducing coke formation. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and anchoring active metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notable examples include the stabilization effect of Pt through strong bonds and the synthesis strategy for zeolite-confined Pt catalysts with high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches, with support modification proving most effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts for PDH, featuring pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, and Pt catalysts with Ga addition to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, which disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters, showcase enhanced stability. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation, incorporate Sn species into the Si-beta framework and disperse Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters, achieving excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed superior performance in stability tests, with reduced coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. In's role in reducing surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and increasing propylene selectivity and stability addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters in Pt-based catalysts and the optimization of metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and rare-earth elements, form alloys with Pt to improve stability and performance, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit significantly from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are enhanced by introducing another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. Noble metals also contribute to enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, demonstrating high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other materials enhances stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost performance. Hierarchical structures provide more accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite reconstruction positively impacts microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity and selectivity to propylene. The synthesis process begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, maintaining stability and selectivity. The catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene with &gt;99% selectivity and can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight the role of particle size and composition in enhancing stability and performance. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta catalysts. These catalysts, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieve high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, calcination, and prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrated 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles act as active sites, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, and offering insights into performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity and yield, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage. This suppresses coke formation and methane production, enhancing anti-coking ability and stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving 46% propylene yield and notable stability. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable active species and carbon resistance, due to Pt-Zn interaction, ensure reaction stability, challenging traditional understanding and offering new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are optimized by controlling the Al3+penta site content, which prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles, addressing fabrication challenges and improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The high electron density of confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity over cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. The formation of Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt and form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades. However, Pt metal alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, causing a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. To address these problems, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface with inactive Sn atoms and breaking up coke-generating Pt ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for the alumina support, which boosts the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, the conventional PtSn/alumina catalyst experiences severe coke formation and catalyst deactivation within one day. In contrast, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity minimizing side reactions (Quote [134], [135], [136], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation. A porous copper-aluminum framework material shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, potentially outperforming PtSn/Al2O3 (Quote [166], [170]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. This strategy results in the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability by anchoring Pt via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. Examples include the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, which address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, particularly support modification, have shown significant promise. Modification of supports, such as the use of γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga addition to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, has proven effective in stabilizing PtSn clusters and enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga, respectively. These advancements, exemplified by the PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial PDH processes, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits excellent catalytic performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve promoter metals in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best stability, featuring moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, which boosts propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction and alloy formation. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and REEs improve Pt dispersion, suppress side reactions, and inhibit coke deposition. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are studied for stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, which modifies the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites, improving dispersion and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system significantly improves efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions, leads to enhanced catalytic efficiency, optimizing design for industrial applications by reducing platinum while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include the development of bimetallic catalysts like PtIn and PtGa, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity [1,2]. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, enhances stability and accessibility of active sites [3]. Single atom sites on Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 and PtCu alloys optimize propane conversion and propene selectivity [4,5]. Hierarchical structures provide more accessible active sites, improving PDH performance [10]. These strategies aim to overcome challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization, focusing on the relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports [6-9].", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by preventing a decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications by achieving near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene without hydrogen addition.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the strategic design of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts, showing that increasing the Sn/Pt ratio and metal particle size enhances ethane dehydrogenation stability and performance by boosting specific activity and reducing carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which utilizes ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The high catalytic ability and product selectivity of these particles inspire the development of low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the role of Cu in enhancing Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts performance and anti-coking ability, attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu. This bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production, thus enhancing stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    