Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving a 46% propylene yield and extended stability without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters, ensuring stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and catalytic stability. The confined GaPt alloy boosts propene formation rates and regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests (Quote 4). These intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation (Quote 6). Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 8), the intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolites show significantly enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (Quote 16). Under harsh operating conditions, these nanoparticles retain high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, maintaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for alkane dehydrogenation highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a process that combines endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower energy requirements and operation at reduced temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [5]). This energy efficiency motivates the development of ODH for industrial applications, but commercial technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion and minimized side reactions (Quote [140]). Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and the industrial implementation of ODH technologies, highlighting the need for further research on catalysts like copper-aluminum framework materials that could potentially achieve dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent innovations in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and utilizing Al2O3, MgAl2O4 spinel, and CeO2 to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats, as well as the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe, prevent Pt sintering. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 and additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions like PtOCe bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering and achieve high stability, maintaining porous texture, and employing single-site metal precursors. Examples include zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts and the synthesis method for uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles, contributing to performance optimization and addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, notably for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. A significant advancement is the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to the inhibition of coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic introduction of various metals as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. Metals like Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst demonstrated superior performance with moderate coke deposition and the highest level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and boosting propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability and suppressing side reactions. Metal oxide-based catalysts, enhanced with added metal oxides, improve dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation uses a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design, with strong bonding to edge BO defects, optimizes geometry, minimizes platinum use, and boosts catalytic activity, effectively tackling challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4 and Mg(Al)O has shown promise. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys have improved propane conversion and propene selectivity, aiming to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, as demonstrated by the superior PDH performance of hydrotalcite-like compounds with hierarchical microstructure and porous structure.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. Unlike traditional catalysts that require hydrogen dilution to prevent carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation, this new catalyst preserves atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and tin oxide phase formation. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, demonstrating the significance of controlled composition and particle size in optimizing stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, showing high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) after prereduction. Co's earth abundance supports its use in ecofriendly, advanced catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve adding copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, optimizing performance and stability. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, diminishing coke formation, improving propylene selectivity, and suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its stability is due to the cooperative work of framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt, opens new paths for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, preventing agglomeration and enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content is critical, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and product desorption. This strategy, proven stable over cycles, effectively tackles fabrication challenges and optimizes performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This novel approach addresses fabrication challenges by enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a promising approach. ODH combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, enabling lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH methods, making it an energy-efficient option for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guide the rational design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. Despite progress, significant gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies, emphasizing the need for continued research and development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. This strategy results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction, and encapsulating Pt in materials like chabazite or coating with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 offers stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering and reducing coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis methods that control metal particle size, tailor bimetallic nanoparticles, and stabilize metal sites. Zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts (quote 6) prevent sintering, while maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals (quote 7) improves structural stability. Uniform bimetal nanoparticles (quote 8) and well-defined surface metal species (quote 9) are prepared using specific synthesis approaches. Transforming zeolite structures (quote 10) and stabilizing metals through strong support interactions (quote 5) also contribute to enhanced stability. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification to strengthen metal-support interactions. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, with high PDH activity and selectivity, benefit from strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability in PDH by stabilizing PtSn clusters. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination and metal impregnation, feature Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters, leading to excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst excels by moderately depositing coke and maintaining a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, thus enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds through promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based systems. Metals like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs improve stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt atom dispersion. Alloying with promoters prevents deactivation in Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, enhance stability through oxide compounds, modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites, thus improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst excels in propane dehydrogenation, optimizing design for industrial use by reducing platinum without sacrificing activity. Its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheets, enhances efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing performance. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, further boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, such as hydrotalcite reconstruction, provide more stable and accessible active sites for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, achieving thermodynamic limits in propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst ensures atomic mixing and avoids segregation. It operates at thermodynamic limits, showing >66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene without hydrogen addition. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, crucial for improved catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. This eco-friendly, cost-effective option addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the optimized addition of 0.5 wt% copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, significantly increasing propylene selectivity and yield. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. This interaction is the primary origin of the enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the ZnPt/HZ catalyst, achieving 46% propylene yield and notable stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Specifically, the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits exceptional stability due to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. This Pt-Zn interaction ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, challenging conventional wisdom and offering new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, improving stability and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1. This strategy achieves high propene selectivity and formation rate, with the zeolite's restriction enhancing regeneration stability, maintaining activity after four consecutive cycles, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites, addressing the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements. Mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts exhibit remarkable enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite showed high initial propane conversion and underwent extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction. This advancement opens up new opportunities for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures and offering energy savings. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. This approach has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, with higher conversion rates and selectivity than conventional Pt-based catalysts on refractory oxide supports. The role of surface oxygen species and the redox property of the metal center in achieving dehydrogenation at lower temperatures is a promising direction for future research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. This design results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in materials like MgAl2O4 spinel and highly siliceous chabazite, or coating with Al2O3, prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation, and atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on innovative synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and transforming zeolite structures. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites. These approaches improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification. PtSn clusters are stabilized in PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts by γ-Al2O3 nanosheets containing pentacoordinate Al3+ ions. The addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites disperses and stabilizes PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. This approach is also effective in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and subsequent metal impregnation, leads to highly stable catalysts. Sn species are incorporated into the framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters, resulting in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, achieving good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include using In as a promoter in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, which improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst exhibits moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability and dispersion of Pt atoms. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, benefit from added metal oxides, enhancing dispersion and stability by modifying host sites' coordination and electronic state. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, as evidenced by the implementation of PtGa catalysts in production plants.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has demonstrated high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in the superior performance of PtIn and PtGa bimetallic NPs. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other materials enhances dispersion and stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH performance, as demonstrated by the positive impact of hydrotalcite reconstruction on microstructure and morphology.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles for direct dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst operates without hydrogen dilution, maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion and increasing productivity. The atomic mixing of Pt and Sn is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with silica prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show optimizing particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger metal particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio boost activity, while smaller size and increased Sn/Pt ratio reduce carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles affect cracking and carbon deposition, impacting performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, achieving 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield in propane dehydrogenation. The Pt-Cu interaction optimizes performance by inhibiting propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation, and reducing methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. Notably, the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours. This stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters, with high electron density, enhance product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, demonstrating optimized performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, containing silanol nests, increase the chemical potential of rare-earth elements, enabling their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. This strategy addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, offering a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as an energy-efficient approach for dehydrogenation processes, combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, which operates at lower temperatures than non-ODH methods [2][3][4][5][6]. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms provide a platform for designing efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes [134][135][136][137]. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes [139][140][141][142][143][144][145][146][147][148][149][150][151]. Research directions include exploring the role of surface oxygen species and redox properties in achieving dehydrogenation at lower temperatures [166][167][168][169][170][171][172].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, hindering C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, as evidenced by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst's outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight strategies to enhance stability, including controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, as evidenced by recent synthesis approaches.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy created highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, involving dealumination and subsequent metal impregnation. These catalysts showed excellent performance and stability, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using various metals as promoters to improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit superior performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability, thereby addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction to regulate active compounds. Pt-based catalysts benefit from alloy formation with promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and REEs, improving active components and inhibiting deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, enhance stability through oxide compound formation, improving active species dispersion. Noble metal addition further boosts catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst optimizes propane dehydrogenation, enhancing efficiency and stability. Its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, reduces platinum usage without compromising activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa nanoparticles. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4 and Mg(Al)O boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, such as those provided by hydrotalcite reconstruction, offer more stable and accessible active sites for superior PDH performance in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Strategies to enhance catalytic stability in ethane dehydrogenation involve controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing size and increasing the ratio reduces carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, which features ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, it achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in PDH. The confined small Co particles serve as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH suggest long-term utility for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve optimizing Cu loading to 0.5 wt% in Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, boosting propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which includes 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a 46% propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, offering strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and opens new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation by anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, as demonstrated in propane dehydrogenation cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites, enhancing propane dehydrogenation by improving product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These zeolites enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, for propane dehydrogenation. Under harsh operating conditions, these catalysts retain significant propane conversion even after extended periods of reaction, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH methods (Quote [2], [3], [5]). This energy efficiency motivates the development of ODH for industrial use, but commercial technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to create selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [140]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve a novel design: the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This design synergizes geometric and electronic effects to significantly boost stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, as evidenced by its performance (kd=0.00033h-1, τ=3067h). This addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding and coke precursor formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Support modification, as seen in PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2, is effective due to pentacoordinate Al3+ and Ga3+ ions stabilizing PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions and stability. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits high activity and selectivity in PDH. Its stability and performance are attributed to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites confined in the Si-beta framework, resulting in ultra-small Pt nanoclusters and high propene formation rates with excellent selectivity. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve strategic use of promoters, including Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, and others. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. Promoters enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties to optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on the strategic introduction of promoters. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys with Pt-based catalysts, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. These promoters improve the dispersion of Pt atoms, enhancing stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also benefit from the formation of oxide compounds, which enhance active species dispersion and catalytic stability under applied conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster system, which minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation, demonstrating high efficiency and stability. This unique system addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications by maintaining the Pt/Cu cluster's geometry through strong bonding interaction, leading to improved catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying Al2O3 support with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative supports like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O oxides, has also proven effective. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys have shown to boost PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation addresses challenges in catalyst design by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and through the benign interaction with silica support, preventing Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction, featuring atomically mixed precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size enhances specific activity, and a higher Sn/Pt ratio minimizes carbon deposition, highlighting the importance of particle size and composition control for improved catalytic stability and performance, effectively addressing design and fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which employs ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This development offers a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst design for long-term utility in propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly enhances performance by inhibiting propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, notably the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than previous versions, challenges traditional understanding and offers new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, effectively dispersing the clusters. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, as demonstrated by the sinter-resistant and regenerable Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy addresses catalyst design and performance optimization, with the confined GaPt alloy enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. High electron density improves product desorption, while the zeolite's restriction ensures regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy demand and enabling lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation can aid in designing efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, with high Pt dispersion on zeolite through ion-exchange, exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to weaker Brnsted sites that minimize side reactions (Quote [140], [141]). Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies, highlighting the need for further research. A recent report suggests that a porous copper-aluminum framework material (stabilized by metal oxide) has better performance for propane dehydrogenation than a PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst, indicating the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. This design, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoating via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis strategies. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on modifying supports, exemplified by PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts. PtSn/Al2O3 benefits from strong metal-support interactions for high PDH activity and selectivity. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites boosts Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by dealumination and metal impregnation, shows excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include using Ce, In, La, Fe as promoters, which improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals added as promoters enhance Pt-Sn interaction and tune acid-base properties. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strategic promoter use. Pt-based catalysts benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see stability enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, which modifies coordination and electronic state, improving dispersion and stability under applied conditions. These strategies address catalyst design and fabrication challenges, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves using boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters, which minimizes platinum usage and optimizes performance for industrial propane dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges. Exploring hierarchical structures provides more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction showing promise in superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic conversion limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation, operating without hydrogen dilution, which increases productivity by avoiding decreased thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction, avoiding the formation of a tin oxide phase.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size boosts specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio decreases carbon deposition, highlighting the significance of particle size and composition control in enhancing stability and performance of supported metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity in dehydrogenation processes. This innovation tackles design and performance challenges, offering an eco-friendly, cost-effective solution for industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. This is achieved through the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability over extended periods without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements employ Pt-Sn clusters on Al2O3 supports enriched with Al3+penta sites, enhancing stability and regenerability in direct dehydrogenation processes. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses fabrication challenges by enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides makes Pt alloy formation difficult, but a novel approach using mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests allows rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower energy requirements and operation at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [136], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ results in weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent developments suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, activated in oxygen, may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation, enhancing CO bond formation, and removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing deactivation due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing design, fabrication, and performance challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong interaction to prevent migration. Pt can be loaded into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and encapsulated in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite to prevent migration. Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking; the non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, as evidenced by the stabilization of Pt through strong bonds, the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and the stabilization of metals by the ETS-2 support.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, particularly using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability. An improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation led to the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts. These catalysts exhibit excellent PDH performance due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, with high propene selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity during multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using promoters like In in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys that improve active components and inhibit deactivation. These advancements suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition, enhancing electronic properties and Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by forming oxide compounds, enhancing dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. Appropriate metal oxides or noble metals significantly boost catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters. This design reduces platinum usage, maximizes activity, and boosts efficiency, as demonstrated in propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, optimizes performance with less platinum, addressing fabrication challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, boosts performance. Single atom Pt sites and PtCu alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide stable, accessible active sites, as seen in hydrotalcite reconstruction, improving PDH reactions. Challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. Its benign interaction with silica prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. Demonstrating near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining >99% initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on optimizing particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts. Increasing particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts ethane dehydrogenation activity, reduces carbon deposition, and addresses fabrication challenges, optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the CoSiBeta catalyst, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Its efficiency stems from ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles lead to cracking and carbon deposition, underscoring the critical role of particle size in enhancing catalytic stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, specifically for propane dehydrogenation. Optimized Cu loading improves propylene selectivity and yield, with the bimetallic interaction between Pt and Cu inhibiting propylene adsorption, suppressing coke formation and methane production, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas, thanks to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. Its design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content, offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports, with high Al3+penta site content preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters, thus enhancing stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, which boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate, while the zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides, which hinders alloy formation through traditional hydrogen reduction methods. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in carbon monoxide oxidation. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has long used PtSn catalysts on porous alumina, but these face issues of rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Introducing Sn to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles mitigates this by diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have developed a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as an advanced catalyst support, boosting catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as an energy-efficient method for dehydrogenation processes, combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation to allow lower operation temperatures than non-ODH processes (quotes [2], [3], [4], [5], [6]). This energy intensification advantage makes ODH attractive for industrial applications, but commercial technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites has been demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, stabilized by metal oxides, may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with the potential to achieve dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (quotes [167], [168]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation and carbidic phase formation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, creating the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 for strong interaction. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds, reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight novel synthesis strategies for enhanced stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These methods improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Support modification, particularly with pentacoordinate ions, has proven effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy created highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, resulting in excellent catalytic performance for PDH. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit higher propylene selectivity and stability by stabilizing metallic Pt particles and promoting surface Pt oxides reduction.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, known for their affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from alloying with promoters to improve active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see enhanced dispersion and stability through the addition of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metals or metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent innovation in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst, which optimizes propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability. This design minimizes platinum usage and maximizes activity through unique geometry and strong bonding, addressing fabrication challenges and enhancing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modified supports with ZnO, La2O3, and TiO2 enhance performance. Single atom sites of Pt, particularly in Pt-Sn and PtCu alloys, boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, such as 3D oxide nanosheet arrays with reconstructed hydrotalcite-like compounds, provide more stable and accessible active sites, significantly improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This is achieved by preserving atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide phase formation. The catalyst avoids hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. It exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts reveal that increasing metal particle size boosts specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio decreases carbon deposition, demonstrating how particle size and composition enhance catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the CoSiBeta catalyst, which uses ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. This confinement of Co particles under optimal conditions serves as an active site, emphasizing the significance of particle size and confinement for enhanced catalytic stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve optimizing Cu loading in Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, challenging traditional understanding and offering new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability, as demonstrated in propane dehydrogenation processes, where the strategy effectively addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate in propane dehydrogenation. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining activity over four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by the low chemical potential of their oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). These catalysts, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, they exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts that rapidly deactivate due to coke formation. This advancement in catalyst design and fabrication provides a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operation temperatures than non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). This energy-efficient process motivates its development for industrial use, but requires innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. New materials, such as porous copper-aluminum framework materials, show promise for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, potentially revolutionizing non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation, and is a cost-effective alternative to Au.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion via ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as Pt in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe bonds in Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2, respectively, prevent Pt sintering. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and selectivity, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds and reducing coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced synthesis strategies that address fabrication challenges and optimize performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture while anchoring active metals. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the synthesis procedure maintains porous texture and anchors active Pt-based metals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification. The PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst, with high activity and stability, highlights the role of strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites boosts Pt catalyst stability in PDH, emphasizing enhanced electronic interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibit excellent PDH performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect ensure good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. Notably, In-promoted catalysts excel by improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefits from these promoters, enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see stability improvements through oxide compound formation, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metal addition boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system reduces platinum usage, maintaining high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) that improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost PDH activity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction impacts 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains propane conversion rates, with TEM images showing well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and adjusting the Sn/Pt ratio significantly boost catalytic stability and performance by enhancing specific activity and reducing carbon deposition. Precise control over particle size and composition is crucial for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, with reducible CoOx species serving as active sites. The confined small Co particles are crucial for high performance, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, highlighting the importance of particle size and confinement in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield with optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading. The PtCu interaction curbs propylene adsorption, raises the CC bond rupture barrier, and restrains coke and methane formation, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yields and notable stability in dehydrogenation. Its stability is due to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt, challenges conventional wisdom and offers new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which prevents agglomeration during cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability. Higher Al3+penta site content is crucial for this effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include synthesizing ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate in propane dehydrogenation. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. This strategy enables the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements. PtCo catalysts, incorporating a large amount of the second metal, exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial PDH process, using PtSn bimetallic catalysts, faces issues with Pt alone due to rapid deactivation from coke deposition, which Sn alleviates by forming an alloy with Pt nanoparticles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as shown by the high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, enabling reactions at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies depend on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (Quote [134]). Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites (Quote [135], [136], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). A porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, with copper providing active sites and the role of surface oxide in catalysis (Quote [166], [167], [169], [170]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation, and is a cheaper alternative to Au alloying.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing catalytic stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions like PtOCe bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering and maintain porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, as demonstrated by the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga3+-containing Mg(Al)O, stabilizes PtSn clusters and enhances electronic interactions between metals. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) demonstrates the effectiveness of these strategies. Dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation lead to the incorporation of Sn species into the framework and the dispersion of Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters, resulting in excellent catalytic performance and stability. This includes high propene formation rates and selectivity, with minimal changes in catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. Notably, In-promoted catalysts outperform others, with moderate coke deposition, maximum surface Pt species, and enhanced propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, gain enhanced dispersion and stability through the addition of another metal oxide. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster optimizes performance by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as demonstrated by PtIn and PtGa nanoparticles. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4 and Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed catalysts for better PDH performance, with hierarchical morphology and porous structure providing more stable and accessible active sites.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. The benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst maintains atomic mixing during reduction and operation. It can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, highlighting the importance of particle size and composition control for improved stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, effectively tackling catalyst design and fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Prepared via Dzwigaj's technique and high-temperature calcination, this catalyst offers potential for low-cost, eco-friendly design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve optimizing Cu loading on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by inhibiting propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, achieving 46% propylene yield and exceptional stability without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with stability linked to the interaction between Pt and Zn, offering insights into dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve PtREE alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active intermetallic compounds. The preparation strategy, involving co-impregnation and heating under O2 and H2, results in Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced activity and selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion over extended periods. A small amount of Ga in the zeolite may contribute to the catalytic function, offering a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial propane dehydrogenation applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions (Quote [2]). This synergy allows ODH to occur at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive technology for industrial applications (Quote [5]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, as well as selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [140]). This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Recent reports suggest that copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with the potential to achieve dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Innovative catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes features the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C. This catalyst exhibits minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as Pt in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and the use of CeO2 to trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, prevent sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and selectivity. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces sintering and coke formation, enhancing selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture to anchor active metals. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, notably using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets, developed by Lu et al., exhibit high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability by stabilizing PtSn clusters. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared using an improved post-synthesis strategy, show excellent catalytic performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization by inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst exhibits the best performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy optimizes Pt-Sn interaction, tunes acid-base properties, and boosts catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds. Pt-based catalysts benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, forming alloys to improve stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts see stability enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and modifying host metal oxide sites. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability, addressing platinum usage and catalytic activity challenges. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, optimizes industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation for Pt-based catalysts involve bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, such as ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have been shown to enhance PDH performance. The overarching goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored for more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the superior PDH performance of hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction in enhancing microstructure and morphology.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, avoiding issues with traditional supports. The benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring retained interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. This approach increases productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on controlling particle size and composition, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O. Larger particles and higher Sn/Pt ratios boost specific activity, reduce carbon deposition, and address fabrication challenges, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which utilizes ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by high-temperature calcination, this catalyst's small Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and offering insights into performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity and yield by inhibiting propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and cracking reactions, thus improving the anti-coking ability and overall stability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    