Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability without regeneration, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between these components offers stable active species and strong carbon resistance, crucial for dehydrogenation stability. Its design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and opens new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhanced catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, boosting stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. The formation of Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is facilitated by the presence of silanol nests in the zeolite, enabling the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation, with the PtREE/zeolite showing a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergoing extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. The PtREE incorporation in the mesoporous zeolite was conducted by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under an O2 flow and subsequently under H2 at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the overall energy requirement (Quote [2]). This lower temperature requirement of ODH compared to non-ODH and cracking is encouraging for industrial application (Quote [5]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy of the dehydrogenation step with hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [13]). The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [140]). The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, with copper providing active sites, may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166]), indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [170]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. This innovative design blocks three-fold Pt3 sites with Pb and enriches electron density around nanoparticles with Ca, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying with a second metal to anchor Pt on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or an Al2O3 overcoat via atomic layer deposition also prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2, and additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include synthesis methods that control metal particle size, tailor bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulate metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintain porous texture, and use single-site metal precursors. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, as exemplified by stabilizing Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and achieving the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks, as reported in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, particularly for Pt-based catalysts in PDH, focus on support modification. This method, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong interactions with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, improving electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for preparing highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, results in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include using Ce, In, La, Fe as promoters to improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals as promoters optimize the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties. The nature of the promoter significantly affects redox properties, surface composition, and lattice oxygen capacity, crucial for initial activity and stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the use of promoters in Pt-based catalysts and the introduction of metal oxides in metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability and inhibiting deactivation. The PtGa catalyst system and alloying Pt with REEs are notable advancements. Metal oxide-based catalysts benefit from the addition of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability. These strategies suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds, optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A Pt/Cu cluster catalyst supported by boron nitride nanosheets shows high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use. Its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure, have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, crucial for PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction positively impacts the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, without the need for hydrogen dilution. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, enhancing catalytic stability. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O. Larger particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios increase specific activity and reduce carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, which features ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The design addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for propane dehydrogenation highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3, with an optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability, improving propylene selectivity and suppressing cracking reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, showing remarkable stability. The catalyst's stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This challenges traditional understanding and opens new design avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, where a high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate due to the high electron density of confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters. Notably, the zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These catalysts address the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods, as demonstrated by retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [139], [140], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143], [144]). Recent developments suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. NiAu alloys make C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation, enhancing CO bond formation, and removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth and carbidic phase formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and sintering. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition also prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 can also prevent sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and employing specific synthesis methods. These advancements, such as stabilizing Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the synthesis strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, particularly the use of pentacoordinate ions to stabilize metal clusters. PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, with strong metal-support interactions, exhibit high stability and activity. Pt/Sn-Si-beta, prepared by an improved post-synthesis strategy, shows excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using In as a promoter in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. This strategy improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability by stabilizing metallic Pt particles.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving Pt-based catalyst stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. PtGa catalysts, utilized in production plants, and Pt-based catalysts promoted by In and Zn have shown promise. Other metals adjust electronic properties and Pt dispersion for stability enhancement. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are optimized by adding another metal oxide, enhancing active species dispersion and modifying host sites' coordination and electronic state, significantly improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation uses a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst, which optimizes performance by minimizing platinum usage and maximizing activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, addresses fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial propane dehydrogenation applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4 and ZSM-5, and single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure have shown promise. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures provide stable, accessible active sites, as seen in the superior performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts with reconstructed hydrotalcite-like compounds. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, avoiding hydrogen dilution. The synthesis starts with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst's benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by achieving near-thermodynamic propane conversion and maintaining high propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, after prereduction, showed 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. Active sites are small metallic Co particles confined in silanols, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, demonstrating enhanced performance and anti-coking ability. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, diminishing coke formation and improving propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring a stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation by anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability during cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts retain high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, significantly outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts which rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2]). This energy-efficient approach is attractive for industrial applications but requires innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, demonstrates outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [140]). The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation results in weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143]). Despite these advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electrons around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt particles, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and nanocarbon to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe bonds. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also resists sintering. Adding elements such as Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, and Co to Pt catalysts improves stability and catalytic performance. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds, reducing coke formation and increasing olefin selectivity. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced innovative synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions like PtOCe bonds (quote 5), encapsulating metals in zeolites for high stability (quote 6), maintaining porous texture to anchor active metals, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on strengthening metal-support interactions. Notably, support modification, as seen in PtSn/Al2O3 and Ga addition to Mg(Al)O, significantly boosts stability by enhancing metal-support interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared via an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits high propene formation rates and selectivity for PDH. Its strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. They enhance Pt-Sn interaction and tune acid-base properties. In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability by stabilizing metallic Pt particles.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on the strategic introduction of promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, significantly improving stability and performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. This enhancement is crucial for Pt's effectiveness in alkane dehydrogenation reactions. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide, which improves the dispersion of active species and enhances catalytic stability. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, offering solutions to the industry.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. This design, characterized by the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster and its strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to high efficiency and stability. It minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys increase propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed and stable Pt catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide more accessible active sites, with promising effects on catalyst microstructure and PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges. These catalysts avoid hydrogen dilution, maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, they preserve atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation, enhancing stability. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, demonstrating significant progress in performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, for dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling particle size and composition. Larger particles and a higher Sn/Pt ratio enhance specific activity, reduce carbon deposition, and address fabrication challenges, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which utilizes ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, it achieves high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are identified as active sites, inspiring the design of low-cost, ecofriendly, and advanced catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu bimetallic interaction improves anti-coking ability and catalytic stability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and suppressing coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the ZnPt/HZ catalyst, notably 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ, achieving 46% propylene yield and 65h stability at 525 C. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst, with a higher Zn and lower Pt content than predecessors, challenges traditional understanding and offers new design avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. A high content of Al3+penta sites prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters, ensuring stability and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include synthesizing ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Utilizing silanol nests enables rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity, like the PtCo alloy for the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process, which has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for decades, faces issues with coke deposition on the Pt surface, leading to deactivation and loss of selectivity to propylene. To mitigate these problems, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking [2][3][5][6]. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability [140]. Copper-aluminum framework materials have shown potential for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes [166].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on preventing coking in Ni catalysts. Alloying Ni with Au or Sn is effective; Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, facilitating the removal of surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation, and can also block sub-surface sites to prevent carbidic phase formation, as shown by computational calculations and experimental evidence.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, creating an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This design achieves outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 for strong interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces, prevent Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 and additives like Ga, In, and B improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring PtB clusters and reducing coke formation. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of Pt.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize synthesis strategies to enhance stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions like PtOCe bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and constructing well-defined surface metal species using single-site precursors. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and single-site metal precursors construct defined surface metals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modifications, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts achieved high stability in PDH due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, enhancing electronic interactions. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts resulted in highly stable catalysts for PDH, with excellent catalytic performance and stability, achieving high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include using Ce, In, La, Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, featuring moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, which promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizes metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic introduction of promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt-based catalysts, effectively suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. This approach optimizes performance and addresses fabrication challenges. Pt-based catalysts, known for their effectiveness in alkane dehydrogenation, benefit significantly from these promoters. Additionally, metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see enhanced performance through the addition of another metal oxide, which improves the dispersion of active species and catalytic stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves using boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters. This design reduces platinum usage while maintaining high catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by leveraging the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions with h-BN nanosheets, leading to high efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures provide stable, accessible active sites, crucial for improved PDH performance. Hydrotalcite reconstruction impacts microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by avoiding hydrogen dilution and excess tin. Synthesis starts with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst demonstrates near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity without hydrogen addition, enhancing productivity. Partial regeneration of activity and selectivity after PDH cycles further boosts catalytic stability, addressing design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, crucial for improved stability and performance. This underscores the importance of controlling particle size and composition to address catalyst design and fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles, serving as active sites. Prepared using Dzwigaj's technique and high-temperature calcination, this earth-abundant Co catalyst addresses fabrication challenges and supports long-term industrial utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading significantly boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5% for propane dehydrogenation, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a 46% propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. These attributes offer new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, which prevents agglomeration and ensures sinter-resistance and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content is critical for stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters, with high electron density, enhance product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address fabrication challenges by enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE catalysts show high catalytic activity and selectivity, particularly in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process benefits from these catalysts, which alleviate problems of rapid deactivation and loss of selectivity due to coke deposition. The use of a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support enhances catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a strategy for energy-efficient dehydrogenation of lower alkanes at lower temperatures. ODH combines endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high Pt dispersion and the use of Fe3+ over Al3+, resulting in weaker acid sites that minimize side reactions. Insights into CH activation mechanisms are crucial for the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower temperature dehydrogenation of C2 and C3 alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth, and sub-surface boron prevents carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent innovations feature a double-decorated PtGa catalyst with Pb and Ca, achieving exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C. This design synergizes geometric and electronic effects, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites, ensuring no deactivation over 1 month. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and nanocarbon to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, or coating with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition, prevent Pt migration and sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding metals like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. Nonmetal elements B and Si can prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and modifying the selectivity of the Pt catalyst, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in synthesis strategies for supported metal catalysts have enhanced catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, and stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions. Examples include zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability, uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles, and stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial applications, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on modifying supports, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. added Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing Pt catalyst stability in PDH by stabilizing PtSn clusters with pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. An innovative post-synthesis strategy created highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH by dealuminating H-beta zeolite and impregnating metals, incorporating Sn into the Si-beta framework and dispersing Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters. These catalysts exhibit excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters, including In, improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts, in particular, showed the best performance with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters. These promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, are introduced to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, significantly improving stability and performance. Promoters form alloys or intermetallic compounds, suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing the dispersion of Pt atoms. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, as do metal oxide-based catalysts through the introduction of another metal oxide, which enhances dispersion and stability under applied conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation uses boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters. This design optimizes performance by minimizing platinum usage and maximizing activity for propane dehydrogenation. The h-BN nanosheets serve as an optimal support, maintaining the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, thus improving catalytic efficiency and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, enhanced by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, such as ZnAl2O4 and Mg(Al)O, further optimizes performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, achieving thermodynamic limits in propane conversion without hydrogen dilution. This innovation enhances stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalyst, synthesized with preserved Pt-Sn atomic mixing, avoids alloy segregation and tin oxide phase formation. Under harsh conditions, it maintains 39% propane conversion after 120 minutes, outperforming alternatives. Partial regeneration is possible, retaining 97% initial activity and 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. Synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and PDH reaction.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, reduces carbon deposition, and thus improves stability and performance. This strategy addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity, with confined Co particles as active sites for propane dehydrogenation. Bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, illustrating strategies for enhanced stability and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction improves anti-coking ability and catalytic stability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst, containing Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, achieved a 46% propylene yield and outstanding stability over 65 hours without regeneration. Notably, it contains more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, offering new directions for stable catalyst design and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Optimizing Al3+penta site levels enhances stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during cycles, as demonstrated by Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The confined GaPt alloy boosts product desorption and regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen flow, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe coke formation and deactivation within one day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. This energy-efficient process motivates its development for industrial applications, but requires innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Zeolites, such as Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, serve as effective supports, achieving high metal dispersion and minimizing side reactions, thus enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Understanding CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts can guide the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve a novel double-decoration strategy using Pb and Ca on PtGa intermetallics, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic promotion effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 for strong interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition, prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include controlling particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site precursors for well-defined surface species. These advancements, such as strong PtOCe bonds, zeolite-confined Pt catalysts, and single-site precursor use, address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include strengthening metal-support interactions through nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification. Support modification, as exemplified by PtSn/Al2O3 and Ga addition to Mg(Al)O, stabilizes PtSn clusters and enhances electronic interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits high dispersion of Pt species and excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 at 550 C and >99% selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity over four cycles at 550 C. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using In as a promoter. In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit superior performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. In promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and boosts propylene selectivity and stability, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction to Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys, suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve Pt dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these additives. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, gain improved dispersion and stability through additional metal oxide introduction, enhancing coordination and electronic states. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy uses boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high efficiency and stability. This innovation, by maintaining the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster through strong bonding with h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for Pt-based catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) that improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, leading to higher activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxides has also been effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved performance. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure exploration aims to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts can operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring interaction retention during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. This approach increases productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion associated with hydrogen addition. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, reduces carbon deposition, and thus improves catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, this catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Post-prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles, acting as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for propane dehydrogenation highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3, with optimized Cu loading significantly boosting propylene selectivity and yield. The intimate Pt-Cu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses cracking reactions and methane formation, enhancing anti-coking ability and catalytic stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, using high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite for propane dehydrogenation. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn, achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. The composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, preventing agglomeration during cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability. High levels of Al3+penta sites effectively stop Pt-Sn clusters from agglomerating into large Pt nanoparticles, crucial for sinter-resistant and regenerable catalysts in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption, selectivity, and formation rate. The zeolite's confinement boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, typically hindered by their low chemical potential. Mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). These catalysts, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods, even under harsh operating conditions. This advancement overcomes the limitations of conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation. The use of mesoporous zeolites as supports opens new opportunities for catalytic applications, particularly in industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize dehydrogenation with hydrogen combustion and to design selective combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [140]). Recent findings suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating potential for significant advancements in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes (Quote [166], [170]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a novel double-decorated PtGa intermetallic catalyst with Pb and Ca, achieving outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C. This design, PtGaCaPb/SiO2, exhibits minimal deactivation over a month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and utilizing carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel for strong interaction. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent Pt migration. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to resist sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. Notably, stabilizing Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and forming Sn single-sites in frameworks address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, which stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include using Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst excelled, featuring moderate coke deposition, maximum surface Pt species, and higher propylene selectivity and stability, thereby optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters. These promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt-based catalysts, effectively suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, known for their high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit significantly from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, which modifies the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications, as evidenced by the implementation of PtGa catalyst systems in production plants.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy uses boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing catalytic stability. This innovation minimizes platinum usage, maximizes activity, and addresses fabrication challenges for industrial use, enhancing efficiency without compromising activity through the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, enhances dispersion and stability. Single atom Pt sites and PtCu alloys boost performance. Hierarchical structures provide stable, accessible active sites, crucial for PDH reactions. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, without the need for hydrogen dilution. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion levels of over 66% and selectivity to propylene exceeding 99%. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, highlighting the significance of particle size and composition control for enhanced stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing industrial application performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity, making it a promising option for PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Cu loading in Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, notably the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 h in propane dehydrogenation. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles that resist carbon deposition, challenging traditional understanding and offering new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, creating sinter-resistant and regenerable catalysts. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, crucial for stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, as demonstrated by the enhanced performance of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, boosting product desorption and maintaining high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, preserving catalytic activity and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing zeolites with silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation, significantly enhancing PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. These catalysts outperform conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh conditions, exhibiting high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH methods. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for light alkane dehydrogenation, with weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM minimizing side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent advancements also include copper-aluminum framework materials, which show promising performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, potentially through a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth and carbidic phase formation, preventing catalyst deactivation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and enhancing catalyst robustness against coking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent innovations in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly boosting stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, effectively addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys anchoring Pt on carriers, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent Pt migration. Pt can also be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration, by anchoring PtB clusters, prevents sintering and reduces coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These approaches improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges for industrial applications. Strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize support modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions or adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, which stabilize PtSn clusters and improve electronic interactions. Notably, Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH due to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites in the Si-beta framework. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications, achieving excellent catalytic performance with a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g-1Pt h-1 and selectivity of >99% at 550°C, and good stability during four cycles at 550°C.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of various metals as promoters, notably In, which improves stability with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. This promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and enhances propylene selectivity and stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges by tuning acid-base properties and enhancing the interaction between Pt and Sn, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, forming alloys to improve stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, improving active species dispersion and modifying host metal oxide sites, as per recent research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst achieves high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in platinum usage and catalytic activity. Its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects, optimizes design for industrial applications by reducing platinum requirements while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on hydrotalcites. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, and exploring single atom Pt sites and PtCu alloys have shown improved performance. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation addresses the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation faced by traditional platinum-tin alloy catalysts supported on alumina. The new catalyst preserves the atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and its benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, this catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieved near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show optimizing PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts' particle size and composition boosts ethane dehydrogenation stability and performance. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, reduces carbon deposition, tackling fabrication challenges and improving industrial dehydrogenation process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. This design addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by utilizing small confined Co particles as active sites, minimizing cracking and carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity and yield significantly. The PtCu interaction curbs propylene adsorption, raises the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and restrains coke and methane formation, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the ZnPt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, which exhibits significant stability over 65 hours. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, with the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, facilitated by the Pt-Zn interaction. This design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content, challenges traditional understanding and opens new paths for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters during cycles, improving stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's confinement boosts electron density, enhancing product desorption and regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Notably, Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite retained 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction under harsh operating conditions, demonstrating significant enhancement in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and allowing for lower operating temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). This synergy makes ODH attractive for industrial applications, but commercial technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, such as Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, serve as supports achieving high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [136], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, activated by metal oxides, may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, potentially enabling the process at 350°C (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au to make C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, or with Sn to hinder CC bond formation and enhance CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating a stable Pt1 site. This design, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, achieves unprecedented stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent Pt migration. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoating via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 offers enhanced stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent BO bonds and Si modifying Pt selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance stability, including controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and constructing well-defined surface metal species. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibit high dispersion of Pt species and excellent catalytic performance for PDH. These advancements, featuring strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect, inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using promoters like In, which improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst demonstrated the best performance, featuring moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strategic promoter introduction. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys with Pt-based catalysts, improving active components and inhibiting deactivation. These promoters suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also benefit from the addition of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent innovation in propane dehydrogenation is a Pt/Cu cluster catalyst supported by boron nitride nanosheets, which minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, leading to higher activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance, addressing challenges in catalyst design and optimization. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds, which significantly boosts PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene without hydrogen dilution. The catalyst's stability and selectivity are attributed to the preservation of atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of a tin oxide phase, addressing challenges in carbon buildup and alloy segregation, and enhancing process efficiency by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling metal particle size and composition. Larger particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts boost specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, reducing carbon deposition and improving stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, developed using Dzwigaj's method. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. The confined Co particles serve as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the role of Cu in improving Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity and yield, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This unique PtCu interaction diminishes coke formation, suppresses cracking reactions, and significantly enhances catalyst performance, addressing challenges in design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 10 wt% Zn and 1000 ppm Pt on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn-based catalysts, achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, challenging traditional understanding and broadening the scope for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. This strategy, featuring high Al3+penta site content, prevents agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, with the catalyst's activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, which enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), significantly outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts. Under harsh operating conditions, Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a method that couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, significantly reducing energy requirements [2]. ODH operates at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH methods, motivating its development for industrial use [5, 6]. However, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps [7]. Zeolites, as supports, enable high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability [134]. Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, a zeolite-supported Pt catalyst, demonstrates outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ over Al3+, leading to weaker Brnsted sites [139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 144]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation [135, 136]. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, activated by metal oxide, shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, potentially revolutionizing the process [166, 167].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against these issues. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. Examples include stabilizing Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, synthesizing zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and stabilizing bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, significantly improves stability by stabilizing PtSn clusters and enhancing electronic interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration, effectively addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. Notably, In improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. This strategy enhances Pt-Sn interaction, tunes acid-base properties, and positively impacts propane dehydrogenation catalytic performance, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, see performance enhancement through the addition of another metal oxide, improving dispersion and stability. PtGa and Pt with REEs have been implemented in production, while Zn and other metals offer economic alternatives. Promoters suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds, significantly impacting catalytic behaviors.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst exhibits high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications by leveraging a unique geometry maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, which boosts catalytic efficiency while minimizing platinum usage.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, along with single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure, have shown promise. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimization needs. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure exploration offers more stable active sites, as demonstrated by the superior PDH performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts with hydrotalcite reconstruction.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. It preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, avoiding the formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, it can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. It can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts. Increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite's silanols, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by supporting cobalt on dealuminated Beta and calcining at high temperatures, showed 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Optimized with 0.5 wt% Cu loading, these catalysts achieve high propylene selectivity (90.8%) and yield (36.5%). The intimate Pt-Cu interaction boosts performance and anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and notable stability. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The Pt-Zn interaction ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, making this catalyst Zn-rich and Pt-lean, breaking traditional understanding and enhancing dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, addressing fabrication challenges. High Al3+penta site content boosts stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during cycles, as demonstrated in sinter-resistant and regenerable catalysts for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites. This method boosts product desorption and propene selectivity due to the high electron density of confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, typically difficult due to their low chemical potential. The mesoporous zeolite, with its unique surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enables the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite, which retained 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction under harsh operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower operating temperatures compared to non-ODH processes. This synergy motivates ODH's development for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ results in weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, hindering C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent innovations in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Notably, the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with the PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reducing coke formation and increasing selectivity to olefins. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced synthesis strategies that control metal particle size, stabilize metal sites through strong interactions with supports, and prepare tailored bimetallic nanoparticles. These strategies include the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and the stabilization of highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support. These improvements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications by enhancing structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry. Incorporating pentacoordinate Al3+ and Ga3+ ions stabilizes PtSn clusters, improving stability and electronic interactions. A PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst exhibited high activity and selectivity due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhanced Pt catalyst stability. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy, with strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during cycles. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and others as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt-based catalysts, improving stability and performance by inhibiting deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also benefit from the addition of another metal oxide, which modifies coordination and electronic states, enhancing stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, improving propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability. This approach minimizes platinum usage, addressing fabrication challenges. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheets, optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing platinum while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, enhances stability. Single atom Pt sites and PtCu alloys on specific structures improve PDH performance. Hierarchical structures offer stable, accessible active sites, addressing PDH challenges. Hydrotalcite reconstruction for 3D oxide nanosheet arrays yields superior PDH performance, highlighting the need for efficient catalyst design and fabrication methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst retains Pt-Sn interaction during operation. Its benign interaction with silica prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. Notably, it operates without hydrogen addition, optimizing productivity and avoiding thermodynamic limit decreases on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst demonstrates near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, showcasing its efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that enlarging metal particle size and adjusting the Sn/Pt ratio significantly boosts specific activity and minimizes carbon deposition, demonstrating effective strategies to enhance catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, thereby addressing key fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination. It achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small Co particles in silanols act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions, optimizing performance by inhibiting propylene adsorption and increasing the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, while also suppressing methane formation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    