Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a 46% propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and opens new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy acts as active sites with high electron density, boosting product desorption for high propene selectivity and formation rate. Zeolite restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Zeolites with silanol nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt, resulting in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity, such as the PtCo alloy for the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as shown by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days under harsh conditions. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) offer energy-efficient conversion of alkanes to alkenes, as the exothermic oxidation of hydrogen offsets the energy-intensive endothermic dehydrogenation process (quotes [2], [3], [4]). This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH methods, making it a promising technology (quotes [5], [6]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, as well as selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (quote [7]). The use of zeolites as supports for metal catalysts, such as Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion and weaker acidity that minimizes side reactions (quotes [134], [135], [136], [137], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (quote [166]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include a novel design that double-decorates PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This design achieves exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 prevents sintering, as demonstrated by Moliner et al. and through atomic layer deposition. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability, similar to Sn. B and Si can prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering by anchoring the non-stoichiometric PtB cluster via a covalent BO bond, as summarized by Dadras et al. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture for anchoring active metals. Strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, as demonstrated by Lu et al. in PDH. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly stable catalysts with excellent PDH performance, high propene formation rates, and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during multiple cycles. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts show the best stability and propylene selectivity, with moderate coke deposition and stabilization of metallic Pt particles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which enhance stability by adjusting electronic properties and improving Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by forming oxide compounds, which enhance dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. Appropriate metal oxides or noble metals significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation, demonstrating high efficiency and stability. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions, significantly improves catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for Pt-based catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides has also shown effectiveness. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have improved performance. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Exploring hierarchical structures and porous catalysts provides more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction enhances microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple cycles. This approach overcomes the need for hydrogen dilution, which limits process efficiency, and demonstrates near-thermodynamic conversion levels and high selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, emphasizing the significance of particle size and composition control for enhanced stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, effectively addressing catalyst design and fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, which features ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction under optimal conditions. The confined small Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. Co's earth abundance suggests long-term utility, making this catalyst a promising development for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, significantly enhancing catalytic stability and performance for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, improving anti-coking ability and selectivity by inhibiting propylene adsorption and raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a 46% propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or auxiliary hydrogen. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This Zn-rich and Pt-sparse catalyst breaks traditional understanding, offering a new approach to stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with adjustable Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for fabrication and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites. Their high electron density boosts product desorption, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of low chemical potential in rare-earth element oxides, enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. PtREE/zeolite catalysts show a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications, significantly enhancing PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and allowing operations at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes. This energy efficiency motivates ODH's development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. This design results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3, MgAl2O4, and CeO2 to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to specific compound formations. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, and encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering. Strategies also involve maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and forming single-site metals in frameworks. These advancements address catalyst design challenges, optimizing performance for industrial applications by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, and Ce as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit optimal performance, with In enhancing the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and boosting propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters (Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, REEs) that form alloys to ameliorate active components. Metal oxide-based catalysts (CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, CrOx-based) are also studied, with oxide compound formation enhancing stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metal introduction boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters, enhancing catalytic stability for propane dehydrogenation. This innovation optimizes catalyst design for industrial use by minimizing platinum while maintaining high activity, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters such as Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved PDH performance. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH outcomes. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-promoter-support relationship, necessitating further research. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being explored to provide stable and accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compounds in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. These catalysts preserve atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, avoiding the need for hydrogen dilution, which increases productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalysts exhibit near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. The catalysts can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, have enhanced catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Larger particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios boost specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and minimize carbon deposition, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization. CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles, which are the active sites for the PDH reaction. After prereduction, the catalyst achieved significant propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. These findings inspire the design of low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2, attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, offering a Zn-rich and Pt-sparse design that breaks traditional understanding and provides new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, crucial for sinter-resistance and performance optimization in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, boosting product desorption, selectivity, and formation rate. The zeolite's confinement enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles on mesoporous zeolites. Zeolite's silanol nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy allows for the incorporation of a large amount of the second metal, such as in PtCo alloys, which exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, significantly enhancing PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (Quote [14], [16], [17], [18]). Zeolites as supports achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [136], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer high performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166], [167], [168]), highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites, leading to outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over a month.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 with strong interaction to prevent Pt migration. Encapsulation in MgAl2O4 spinel or chabazite, and Al2O3 overcoats, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability akin to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and reducing coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and anchoring active metals. These methods improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. For example, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance supported metal catalyst stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry methods. Support modification, notably by incorporating pentacoordinate ions, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2 catalysts with enhanced stability through strong metal-support interactions have been developed. The addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites further improves Pt catalyst stability. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were created using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination and metal impregnation. This results in Sn species within the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters, achieving excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters to the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. In also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilized metallic Pt particles, and increased propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, are improved by metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, forming alloys to inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are optimized by introducing another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, optimizing design for industrial applications by reducing expensive platinum while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Strategies include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure, have proven effective. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure exploration offers more stable, accessible active sites, enhancing PDH reaction performance. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction positively impacts the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH outcomes.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution and increasing productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide formation, addressing fabrication challenges. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, resulting in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, crucial for improving stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst, particularly the 0.5CoSiBeta variant with a 0.5 wt% Co loading, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Small confined Co particles are proven to be efficient active sites, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. This bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, significantly improving stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, particularly the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring a stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's confinement enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, typically difficult due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach utilizes a mesoporous zeolite with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resulting intermetallic compounds are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite, which retained 8% propane conversion even after 30 days of reaction under harsh operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and allowing reactions at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (quotes [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, with high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites due to the choice of Fe3+, achieves outstanding stability and high alkene selectivity for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (quotes [140], [141], [143], [144]). Recent developments suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer improved performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (quotes [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and promotes CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by mitigating coking and enhancing the robustness of supported metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. This design, exemplified by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoating via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2, and the addition of Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' and Si modifying selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties of Pt.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on modifying supports, a simple yet effective method. PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Ga catalysts demonstrated improved stability in PDH due to strong metal-support interactions and enhanced electronic interactions. The post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, led to highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and Sn species in the framework, achieving excellent catalytic performance and stability in PDH. The catalysts showed a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 at 550 C and 3.1 mol g1Pt h1 at 600 C, with >99% propene selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit superior performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts by introducing promoters. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and stabilizing active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving dispersion and modifying the electronic state of host sites, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A Pt/Cu cluster catalyst supported on boron nitride nanosheets demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. Its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects, minimizes platinum usage and maximizes activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, which improve activity and selectivity through promoter doping and electron transfer. Support modification with oxides like ZnO, La2O3, and TiO2, or replacement with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, aims to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, particularly hydrotalcite-like compounds, are being explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites, enhancing PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the exact relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase, demonstrating excellent stability and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, demonstrating that controlling particle size and composition enhances catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined small Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced solution for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, boosting catalytic stability and performance for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieves 90.8% propylene selectivity and a 36.5% yield, thanks to enhanced anti-coking ability and reduced methane formation, attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. Notably, the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn catalysts, challenges traditional design and opens new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports, enhancing stability and regenerability. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite act as active sites, enhancing product desorption. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance, as evidenced by unchanged catalytic activity after multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. This enables the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and allowing operations at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Insights into CH activation mechanisms provide a platform for rational catalyst design. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, supported by zeolites for high metal dispersion, exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites. New research directions, such as copper-aluminum framework materials, show promise for achieving dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, potentially as low as 350 C, with copper providing the active sites and the role of surface oxide species in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation and enhance CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 coating via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds and reduced coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, using hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, employing single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. [5] highlights the stabilization effect of Pt through strong bonds, while [6] reports on zeolite-confined Pt catalysts with high stability. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification, an effective and simple method. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts for PDH, developed by Lu et al., exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions stabilizing PtSn clusters. Ma et al. demonstrated that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH, possibly by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH were prepared using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation, showing excellent catalytic performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to enhance stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, improve stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, demonstrating an approach to optimize catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, particularly for Pt-based catalysts, involve using bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure have also been effective. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction showing promise for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the benign interaction with silica prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst exhibits over 66% propane conversion and maintains 99% selectivity to propylene. Partial regeneration is possible, retaining 97% initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This innovation addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by avoiding hydrogen dilution, which decreases thermodynamic limits on propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the enhancement of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalyst stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation by controlling particle size and composition. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts activity and reduces carbon deposition, underscoring the significance of precise design for optimized dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) demonstrates high activity and selectivity post-prereduction. Confined Co particles are active sites for PDH, whereas bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, impacting stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading on Pt/Al2O3 boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, reducing coke formation and improving selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the ZnPt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with stable active species and strong carbon resistance due to the interaction between Pt and Zn. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The catalyst's stability and regenerability are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring sinter-resistance and improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites, enhancing propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. Zeolite restriction improves regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. To address this, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, offering energy efficiency and lower operating temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [4], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, supported by zeolites, exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [134], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). A recent report suggests that a porous copper-aluminum framework material may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, potentially achieving dehydrogenation at 350 C (Quote [166], [167]). Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent innovations in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on surfaces, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoating via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds and reducing coke formation. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and anchoring active metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. Tailoring the size and phase of bimetallic nanoparticles stabilizes Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and achieves the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks, demonstrating the effectiveness of these strategies in enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Support modification has proven particularly effective and simple. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated Si-beta, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties and promoting catalytic performance. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best stability test performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through the introduction of promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see enhanced stability and dispersion of active species through the addition of another metal oxide. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance by modifying coordination and electronic states.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy for enhancing catalytic stability in propane dehydrogenation uses a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst. This innovation addresses fabrication challenges by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the need for expensive platinum without compromising high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying Al2O3 support with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing it with other oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost PDH efficiency. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable and accessible active sites, addressing catalyst design challenges. Hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction shows promise in improving microstructure and PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst, synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and tin oxide formation. The benign interaction with silica support avoids issues common with traditional supports. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene over 66% and maintains high selectivity, even under harsh conditions. Regeneration studies demonstrate partial recovery of activity and selectivity after PDH cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts ethane dehydrogenation activity and decreases carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, with Co particles as active sites and Co3O4 and Co0 contributing to cracking and carbon deposition. Prepared using Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, prereduction under optimal conditions yields high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity and yield, improving anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and suppressing cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. The higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage on PtCu/Al2O3 suppresses methane formation, with the unique PtCu bimetallic interaction being the primary origin of the enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, achieving a 46% propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, has two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. Its stable active species and strong carbon resistance, attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensure admirable reaction stability. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing stability and regenerability. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, crucial for sinter-resistance and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites with high electron density, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The resultant bimetallic nanoparticles, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y on degallated zeolites, show improved stability, activity, and selectivity, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, offering energy efficiency advantages over non-ODH methods. ODH operates at lower temperatures, motivating its development for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to synergize the dehydrogenation and oxidation steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst exhibits outstanding stability due to high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ over Al3+, leading to weaker Brnsted sites and minimizing side reactions. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, and Ca enriches Pt1 sites, creating PtGaCaPb/SiO2, an ultra-stable propane dehydrogenation catalyst with minimal deactivation over 1 month at 600C, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces, prevent Pt migration. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent BO bonds enhance sintering resistance and reduce coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. For example, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve introducing metals like In as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy optimizes performance by enhancing Pt-Sn interaction and tuning acid-base properties, addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. These promoters form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, benefit from the addition of another metal oxide to improve active species dispersion and catalytic stability under applied conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, making it a promising solution for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting performance. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, enhances stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, particularly hydrotalcite reconstruction, provide more stable and accessible active sites for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity for propylene, addressing challenges in carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. Notably, this catalyst can operate without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase, further enhancing the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in controlling particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts have enhanced stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols, showing high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the catalyst demonstrates significant conversion and selectivity post-prereduction. Confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, specifically for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving anti-coking ability and propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and exceptional stability in dehydrogenation processes. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This breaks traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, crucial for stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites, enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Pt alloy catalysts, such as PtCo, show high catalytic activity and selectivity in carbon monoxide oxidation. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process benefits from PtSn bimetallic catalysts, which alleviate deactivation due to coke deposition. Researchers have developed a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolite retain high initial propane conversion and undergo slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The presence of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial propane dehydrogenation applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operating temperatures than non-ODH and cracking. This energy-efficient process motivates its development for industrial use, but requires innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated with the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ led to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for improved stability. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. Specific examples include the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability, and the stabilization of highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions or adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizes PtSn clusters and enhances electronic interactions. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also underscore the significance of support modification. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, incorporate Sn species into the framework and disperse Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters. These catalysts exhibit excellent PDH performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and maintain stability through strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic addition of metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters to the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals enhance Pt-Sn interaction and tune acid-base properties, optimizing propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst demonstrated superior stability, with moderate coke deposition and enhanced surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation in Pt-based catalysts. These promoters enhance stability by modifying electronic properties and dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide, improving dispersion and stability under applied conditions. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, optimizing design for industrial applications by reducing platinum while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides, and single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure have shown promise. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, allowing operation without hydrogen dilution, which increases productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and high selectivity to propylene, demonstrating excellent stability under harsh conditions. Regeneration studies indicate partial regeneration is possible, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes involve controlling particle size and composition. Increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and reduces carbon deposition, directly addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature CoSiBeta, a supported metal catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in PDH. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, followed by calcination and prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity. Confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles address cracking and carbon deposition, optimizing performance for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing Cu loading at 0.5 wt% to achieve 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, thus suppressing coke formation and enhancing stability and anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving a 46% propylene yield and outstanding stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is due to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, offering strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and opens new paths for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters, crucial for stability and regenerability in consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters, with high electron density, boost product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit significant enhancements in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days, opening up new opportunities for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes leverage oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, reducing the overall energy requirement (Quote [2]). ODH's lower temperature requirement compared to non-ODH and cracking is encouraging for industrial application (Quote [5]), but commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [134]). The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [139]). This catalyst's high Pt dispersion on zeolite through ion-exchange and the choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation lead to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [141]). Recent advancements, such as the use of porous copper-aluminum framework materials, show potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166]), indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, addressing stability challenges. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing the stability of the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst in propane dehydrogenation at 600C with minimal deactivation over 1 month, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as using highly siliceous chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, prevent Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts demonstrate high stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Support modification is particularly effective, as demonstrated by the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, which achieved high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to enhanced electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH were prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters, leading to excellent catalytic performance and stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, featuring moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, which boosts propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see improved dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst. This design, characterized by strong bonding with edge BO defects, ensures high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, minimizing platinum usage and maximizing activity, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs supported on hydrotalcites. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxide also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have been shown to boost PDH performance. These strategies aim to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved and stable performance. Challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist, highlighting the need for more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure, such as hydrotalcite reconstruction, provides stable and accessible active sites for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. By preserving atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, and through a benign interaction with the silica support, the formation of tin oxide phases is prevented. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst features atomically mixed precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst shows minimal deactivation, with propane conversion remaining above 39% after 120 minutes. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the optimization of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts in ethane dehydrogenation by controlling particle size and composition, which enhances stability and performance. Larger particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio boost specific activity and minimize carbon deposition, offering strategies for supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Co particles act as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co supports the eco-friendly and advanced nature of this catalyst, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the role of Cu in enhancing Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts catalytic performance and anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus reducing coke formation and suppressing cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving propylene selectivity and minimizing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving a 46% propylene yield and notable stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its stability is due to Lewis acidic sites from Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, offers a new perspective on stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption for high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by their low chemical potential. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds. These compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, significantly enhance the catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, whereas PtREE/zeolite catalysts retain high initial propane conversion and undergo slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion after 30 days. These advancements provide a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations (quotes [2], [3], [4], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (quote [181]). Zeolites, such as Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieve high metal dispersion, offering outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites (quotes [134], [135], [136], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144], [145], [146], [147], [148], [149], [150], [151]). Recent findings suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may outperform PtSn/Al2O3 for propane dehydrogenation, potentially enabling lower temperature operations (quotes [166], [167], [168], [169], [170], [171], [172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth, and sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. This design, exemplified by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include precise control of metal particle size, preparation of tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilization of metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulation in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintenance of porous texture. Examples include the stabilization of Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts and the preparation of well-defined surface metal species using single-site precursors, addressing industrial challenges by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches, with support modification being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals as promoters enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning the acid-base property and positively impacting propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best stability test performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these additions, which suppress side reactions and inhibit coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by introducing another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by its interaction with the h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, optimizing catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides such as ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in understanding the Pt-promoter-support relationship. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction has shown promising effects on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. Notably, it operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, demonstrating its efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, demonstrating that controlling particle size and composition enhances catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, inspired by Dzwigaj's method, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves high propane conversion (72%) and propylene selectivity (92%) post-prereduction, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly solution for PDH due to Co's earth abundance, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading enhances propylene selectivity and yield, with improved anti-coking ability attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction. This interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This breaks traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. A high content of Al3+penta sites enhances stability and regenerability by preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for PDH, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. Zeolite confinement improves regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower energy requirements and operation at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have been used as supports to achieve high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework leads to weaker acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, activated in oxygen, showed superior performance for propane dehydrogenation compared to PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) blocks carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes include a novel double-decoration strategy using Pb and Ca on PtGa intermetallics, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on carriers, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 coating through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced innovative synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, and employing single-site metal precursors. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions and adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizes PtSn clusters and enhances electronic interactions, improving stability and performance. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, results in highly stable catalysts with excellent catalytic performance for PDH, featuring high propene selectivity and formation rates. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, critical for stability. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed superior performance, with enhanced reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilization of metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial propane dehydrogenation applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on introducing promoters to Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, enhancing central active components and preventing deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, improving Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have their catalytic stability enhanced by introducing another metal oxide or noble metal, modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites, significantly enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters, achieving high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation. This innovation minimizes platinum usage and maximizes catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions with the h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency, exemplifying optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites, which improve dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxides also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for superior PDH performance, addressing challenges in catalyst design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. These nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, exhibit high stability and selectivity to propylene. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. This interaction is preserved, preventing segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can achieve near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (&gt;66%) and &gt;99% selectivity, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support avoids the issues seen with traditional catalyst supports. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and &gt;99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This development represents a significant step forward in overcoming challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts optimizes ethane dehydrogenation processes. Larger metal particles and higher Sn/Pt ratios boost specific activity, while smaller particles and higher ratios minimize carbon deposition, tackling fabrication challenges and enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, highlighting the importance of particle size and confinement in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the addition of copper to platinum-based catalysts (Pt/Al2O3), specifically for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu enhances anti-coking ability and catalytic performance by inhibiting propylene adsorption and raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production. This bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement upon copper addition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    