Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield and remarkable stability. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, linked to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensure the catalyst's stability, challenging traditional understanding and offering new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3, preventing agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite serves as an active site, offering high propene selectivity and formation rate due to its high electron density. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining consistent catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites, addressing fabrication challenges. The low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides hinders alloy formation with Pt, but mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation, as evidenced by the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles showing high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days, significantly enhancing PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operating temperatures and energy efficiency [2]. This makes ODH attractive for industrial applications, but commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps [7]. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, with its high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes [140, 141]. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability [143, 144].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and carbidic phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, addressing stability and performance optimization. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around the nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as using chabazite or coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. B, when forming a non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored to the carrier via a covalent BO bond, prevents sintering and reduces coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing both electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. These advancements address fabrication challenges and improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, as demonstrated by the stabilization effect of strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, among other methods. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong interactions, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability in PDH. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH by improving electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications, particularly in bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. These improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals enhance Pt-Sn interaction and tune acid-base properties, boosting propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst demonstrated the best stability, featuring moderate coke deposition and a high concentration of surface Pt species, which promotes reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizes metallic Pt particles, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are improved by forming oxide compounds, modifying coordination and electronic states for better stability. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, optimizing design for industrial applications by reducing platinum requirements while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing performance. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides such as ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O, also boosts performance. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys increase propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Hierarchical structures are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses common issues like carbon buildup and alloy segregation in traditional catalysts. Notably, it operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst features atomically mixed precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieved near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, demonstrating its effectiveness in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in industrial applications. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining >99% of initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that adjusting the particle size and Sn/Pt ratio of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts optimizes ethane dehydrogenation processes. Larger particles and higher Sn/Pt ratios increase specific activity, while smaller particles and increased Sn/Pt ratios reduce carbon deposition, tackling key challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature CoSiBeta, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles lead to cracking and carbon deposition. This innovation inspires low-cost, eco-friendly catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the use of Cu to boost the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation, cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, and methane formation, thus enhancing catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and selectivity. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit significantly enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, PtREE/zeolite catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a strategy to lower energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing operations at lower temperatures than traditional methods (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). ODH's energy efficiency advantage necessitates innovative catalyst and process design for industrial application, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, demonstrating outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C with higher performance than PtSn/Al2O3, indicating potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, reducing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carrier surfaces, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions like PtOCe bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. Zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, demonstrating the effectiveness of these approaches.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, as in PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3 stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions, while adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability. The post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and excellent catalytic performance. These advancements improve stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts excel, with reduced coke deposition and enhanced surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and increasing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and REEs form alloys, improving central components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation, enhanced by metal promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, benefit from oxide compound formation, improving active species dispersion and stability. Appropriate metal oxide or noble metal introduction significantly boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on hydrotalcites. Modifying Al2O3 supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxides boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist, highlighting the need for more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles for direct dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. The catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn, preventing segregation. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, it forms atomically mixed precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under reaction conditions, it attains over 66% conversion and over 99% selectivity to propylene. Partial regeneration is possible, retaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation show that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, suggesting that controlling particle size and composition can enhance catalytic stability and performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, this catalyst addresses challenges by confining active Co particles, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles manage cracking and carbon deposition, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight the role of Cu in enhancing Pt/Al2O3 catalysts' stability. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity and yield, by inhibiting propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production. This addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization, showcasing a strategic approach to fabrication and enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, achieving high propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its stability is due to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than previous designs, challenges traditional understanding and broadens the scope for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content significantly improves stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, as demonstrated in propane dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy enhances propene selectivity and formation rate by boosting product desorption. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operating temperatures and energy efficiency compared to non-ODH processes. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent advancements, such as the use of a porous copper-aluminum framework material, show potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C. Notably, this catalyst showed no deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or an Al2O3 overcoat via atomic layer deposition prevents Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering via Mg2PtO4-like compounds and PtOCe bonds, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co have similar effects to Sn in improving stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via covalent BO bonds and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced synthesis strategies that control metal particle size, prepare tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulate metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintain porous texture to anchor active metals. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on strengthening metal-support interactions through methods like nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and notably, support modification. Support modification has proven effective and simple, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions stabilizing PtSn clusters. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhanced Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, improving electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals like In as promoters. These improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit high performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability. Promoters enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties, positively impacting propane dehydrogenation catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition to inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are improved by forming oxide compounds to enhance dispersion and stability. Noble metal addition can significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include the use of bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternatives like ZnAl2O4 and ZSM-5, enhances stability and performance. Single atom Pt sites and PtCu alloys have been shown to boost performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures provide more accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Challenges in understanding Pt-M-support relationships persist, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These nanoparticles operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, enhancing catalytic stability. The synthesis process begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, as demonstrated in studies.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, whereas decreasing particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, underscoring the importance of precise control over particle size and composition for enhanced catalytic stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite's silanols. This innovation achieves high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrated 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus diminishing coke formation and improving propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its stability is attributed to active centers from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This interaction between Pt and Zn offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with adjustable Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively, preventing agglomeration into larger Pt nanoparticles. High Al3+penta site content ensures sinter-resistance and regenerability, optimizing performance in consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit significantly enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, PtREE/zeolite shows high initial propane conversion and undergoes extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a key strategy. ODH couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, offering energy efficiency and lower operating temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have demonstrated outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion and minimized side reactions (Quote [140], [141]). New research directions include copper-aluminum framework materials, which show promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 for strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Computational screening predicts Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and employing single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications. The stabilization effect of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the synthesis strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts are notable advancements.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Support modification, as seen in PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2 catalysts, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions. Pentacoordinate Al3+ and Ga3+ ions in supports disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions and stability. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene selectivity and formation rate. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during regeneration cycles. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit optimal performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the strategic use of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, effectively suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, known for their efficiency in alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which enhance dispersion and electronic properties, as seen in the PtGa catalyst system used in industrial FCDh technique. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see improved stability through the addition of metal oxides, which modify coordination and electronic states, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has demonstrated high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in platinum usage and catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing platinum consumption while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on hydrotalcites. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure have also been effective. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These methods aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-promoter-support relationship, necessitating more efficient solutions. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution. These catalysts preserve atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The new catalyst operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, demonstrating excellent stability and selectivity without the need for hydrogen dilution.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the optimization of supported metal catalysts, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, by controlling particle size and composition to enhance stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and improving industrial application performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction, highlighting the importance of particle size in catalyst performance. The high catalytic ability and product selectivity of these small confined Co particles provide inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing stability and performance. An optimal 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieves 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving a 46% propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its stability is due to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring active species stability and strong carbon resistance, marking a breakthrough in dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Adjusting the Al3+penta site levels boosts stability and regenerability, effectively preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, as demonstrated in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's confinement enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines dehydrogenation and oxidation to lower energy requirements and operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Research indicates that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. NiAu surfaces make C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation, enhancing CO bond formation and removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by mitigating coking and enhancing the robustness of supported metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. This strategy blocks Pt3 sites with Pb and enriches electron density around Pt1 sites with Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability by preventing sintering and coking, with B forming a strong covalent BO bond and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, including the use of γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions to stabilize PtSn clusters, as demonstrated by Lu et al. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances electronic interactions between Pt and Ga, improving stability. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, results in the incorporation of Sn species into the Si-beta framework and the dispersion of Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters. This leads to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters, notably In, improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy optimizes the interaction between Pt and Sn, tunes acid-base properties, and improves propane dehydrogenation catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see stability improvements through oxide compound formation, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metal addition boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A Pt/Cu cluster catalyst supported by boron nitride nanosheets demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet defects, optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing expensive platinum while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying Al2O3 support with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing it with other oxides, such as ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites, as seen in the design of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts with superior PDH performance due to hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene, exceeding 66% conversion and 99% selectivity. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that optimizing the particle size and Sn/Pt ratio of supported metal catalysts, like those used in ethane dehydrogenation, enhances stability and performance by boosting specific activity and minimizing carbon deposition, underscoring the significance of design and fabrication in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, it achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co supports the catalyst's long-term utility and eco-friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, inhibiting propylene adsorption, suppressing coke formation, and reducing methane formation, thus improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, particularly the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles that resist carbon formation. This design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, where high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites, serving as active sites for propane dehydrogenation. The high electron density of the confined GaPt alloy boosts product desorption, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address fabrication challenges by enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The key to this is the use of mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, which increase the chemical potential of rare-earth elements, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh conditions. These catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling operations at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes (Quote [2], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, exhibiting outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [140], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Recent findings suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, potentially activated by oxygen, could offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth, and boron also blocks sub-surface sites to prevent carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, resulting in an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with minimal deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 to prevent migration and sintering. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces, prevent Pt migration and sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2, and additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent BO bonds reduce coke formation and increase selectivity to olefins. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability, including controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strengthening metal-support interactions. Modification of supports, particularly with pentacoordinate ions, has proven effective in stabilizing metal clusters and enhancing electronic interactions, improving catalytic performance. For instance, PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts have shown high activity, selectivity, and stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to strong metal-support interactions. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications by improving stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like In as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The addition of In stabilizes metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see enhanced stability through the introduction of additional metal oxides, which modify coordination and electronic states, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications, due to the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster maintained by strong bonding interactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on bimetallic catalysts, support modification, and hierarchical structure design. Bimetallic catalysts, achieved by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing performance. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, boosts stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, addressing fabrication challenges. The reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds shows promise in improving PDH performance through superior microstructure and morphology.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This is achieved by preserving atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst, synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, features atomically mixed precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under reaction conditions, it exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design, such as controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, have enhanced catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and decreases carbon deposition, improving stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This innovation exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. Small confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH support the catalyst's long-term utility and eco-friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieving 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. The Cu-Pt interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, reducing coke formation and suppressing cracking reactions, while also minimizing methane formation, improving propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters, crucial for stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost propene selectivity and formation rate, while the zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, thus optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling stable intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quote 4). These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. However, the use of mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests facilitates diffusion onto Pt, forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds (quote 6). The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quote 14). These catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods (quote 21). These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, with weaker acidity minimizing side reactions for higher alkene selectivity and stability. New research directions aim to achieve dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, such as the promising performance of a porous copper-aluminum framework material for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth, and boron also blocks sub-surface sites to prevent carbidic phase formation. Sub-surface boron destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and nanocarbon for strong interaction. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formations. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on innovative synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture while anchoring active metals. Tailored synthesis approaches can form Sn single-sites in frameworks and stabilize highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. demonstrated that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improves Pt catalyst stability in PDH, with pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also seen in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in highly stable catalysts with excellent catalytic performance for PDH. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of In as a promoter in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. In-promoted catalysts exhibit superior stability, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In facilitates the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizes metallic Pt particles, leading to enhanced propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, are introduced to regulate active compounds, suppress side reactions, and inhibit coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, are improved by forming alloys or intermetallic compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, like CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are enhanced by introducing another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has demonstrated high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, showcasing an optimized design approach for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts, where doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improves dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying Al2O3 supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxides enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Hierarchical structures and porous morphologies are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-promoter-support relationship, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, outperforming traditional catalysts that rapidly deactivate.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the effectiveness of controlling particle size and composition in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation, enhancing stability and performance. Larger metal particles and higher Sn/Pt ratios boost specific activity and minimize carbon deposition, offering optimized strategies for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Small metallic Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The high catalytic ability and product selectivity of these small confined Co particles offer novel inspiration for advanced catalyst design, addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu bimetallic interaction improves anti-coking ability and catalytic stability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield and remarkable stability. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures a stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, leading to admirable reaction stability. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabrication with varying Al3+penta site levels disperses Pt-Sn2 clusters, preventing agglomeration and ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy boosts product desorption, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH processes. This synergy motivates ODH's development for industrial use, though commercial technologies hinge on innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieve high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, with Fe3+ minimizing side reactions to enhance alkene selectivity and stability. Recent findings suggest that a porous copper-aluminum framework material could offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, potentially enabling dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. This design, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces prevent Pt migration. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2, and additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent BO bonds enhance sintering resistance and reduce coke formation. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions like PtOCe bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and constructing well-defined surface metal species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Specific examples include zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability and the stabilization of highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, a strategy proven effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, which disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy created highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, with Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states incorporated into the Si-beta framework and Pt species highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters. These catalysts showed excellent PDH performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals (including In) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties and boosting catalytic performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys to improve stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts have their stability enhanced through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying the coordination and electronic state of host sites, significantly enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design minimizes platinum usage while maintaining high catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions, leads to improved catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored for more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite-like compounds showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses challenges in catalyst design by preventing carbon buildup and avoiding alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. This catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that increasing metal particle size boosts specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, demonstrating strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design boosts activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the role of Cu in enhancing Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading improves propylene selectivity and yield significantly. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, increases the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. Specifically, the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, features two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to exceptional stability without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. This challenges conventional understanding and offers new opportunities for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content significantly improves stability and regenerability by preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption, selectivity, and formation rate. The zeolite's confinement boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of low chemical potential in rare-earth element oxides, which hinders alloy formation with Pt through conventional hydrogen reduction methods. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show significant enhancements in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation to lower energy requirements, as per quotes [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], and [7]. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion and the design of selective catalysts, as highlighted in quote [7]. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as detailed in quotes [134] through [146]. Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies, as noted in quotes [147] through [151]. New research directions, such as the use of porous copper-aluminum framework materials, show promise for achieving dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, as indicated in quotes [166] through [172].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. This design, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds and modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. For example, synthesis approaches can tailor the size and phase of bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, and achieve the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, particularly by incorporating pentacoordinate metal ions, has proven effective, as seen in the high stability of PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. The addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites by Ma et al. enhanced electronic interactions between Pt and Ga, improving Pt catalyst stability. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination and subsequent metal impregnation, further demonstrates the effectiveness of these strategies. These catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve incorporating promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. This improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters enhance Pt-Sn interaction, tuning acid-base properties, which boosts propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts show the best stability, maximizing surface Pt species for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on introducing promoters to Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys, improving active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are enhanced by introducing another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A Pt/Cu cluster catalyst supported on boron nitride nanosheets has shown high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage and maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency, demonstrating an optimized catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying Al2O3 supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite reconstruction shows promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. It operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. Under harsh conditions, propane conversion remains stable at 39% after 120 minutes, outperforming other tested catalysts. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This advancement in catalyst design overcomes limitations of traditional catalysts, enhancing catalytic stability and performance in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies demonstrate that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts boosts stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing industrial processes. Larger metal particles and higher Sn/Pt ratios enhance activity and reduce carbon deposition, underscoring the importance of precise catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which, by confining ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieves high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, it attains 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small Co particles in silanols act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co underscores the ecofriendly and advanced design's long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This interaction also suppresses methane formation, enhancing anti-coking ability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the ZnPt/HZ catalyst, achieving 46% propylene yield and outstanding stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability stems from the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, where a high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, boosting product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's confinement enhances regeneration stability, maintaining activity over four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing the process to occur at lower temperatures than non-ODH and cracking. This makes ODH an attractive industrial technology, but commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites has been demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimized side reactions, resulting in higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. NiAu alloying reduces C adsorption thermodynamic favorability, while NiSn alloying hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, facilitating the removal of surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, stabilizing the Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and nanocarbon with strong interaction with Pt to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be loaded into the spaces between the layers of MgAlOx hydrotalcite and enclosed in the interspace of MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in highly siliceous chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent Pt sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 can also prevent sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can have similar effects as Sn in improving stability. B and Si can also prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing both electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, and encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, nanopore-encaged metal strategy, and wet-chemistry approach. Modification of supports, such as in PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts by Lu et al., and the addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites by Ma et al., have shown significant improvements in stability due to strong metal-support interactions and dispersion of PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts with excellent catalytic performance for PDH, achieving high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals like Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca as promoters. These improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters enhance Pt-Sn interaction, tuning acid-base properties, boosting propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed optimal stability, with controlled coke deposition and high surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the strategic use of promoters. These promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, are introduced to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. By forming alloys or intermetallic compounds, they suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve Pt dispersion, thereby enhancing stability. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it a potent catalyst for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the addition of another metal oxide, which improves the dispersion of active species and catalytic stability. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design, characterized by strong bonding between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, maintains the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation. This addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance performance. The goal is to obtain highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst that operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. Traditionally, hydrogen dilution and excess tin were used to prevent carbon buildup and alloy segregation, but these strategies reduced efficiency. The new catalyst, synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. This approach prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, allowing the catalyst to maintain high conversion levels and selectivity without hydrogen addition. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieved near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This development addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies demonstrate that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts in ethane dehydrogenation enhances catalytic stability. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio improves specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles address cracking and carbon deposition, optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which combines 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a 46% propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The Pt-Zn interaction ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to reaction stability. The high Zn and low Pt content challenge traditional understanding, offering new design possibilities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content significantly enhances stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's confinement boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing silanol nests in mesoporous zeolites, which enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades, but these catalysts suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition on the Pt surface. To alleviate this issue, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface with inactive Sn atoms and breaking up coke-generating Pt ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for the alumina support, which boosts the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, the conventional PtSn/alumina catalyst experiences severe coke formation and catalyst deactivation within one day, whereas the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking processes. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have been used as supports to achieve high metal dispersion, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in zeolites leads to weaker acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, activated by metal oxide, shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing deactivation due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, leading to outstanding catalytic stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates ultra-stability, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of Mg2PtO4-like compounds and PtOCe bonds, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These advancements, such as strong PtOCe bonds stabilizing Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibiting high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizing highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites, address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, notably using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets, with high PDH activity and selectivity, benefit from strong metal-support interactions due to pentacoordinate Al3+ ions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibit excellent PDH performance due to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites, achieving high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements improve stability and selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. They also tune the acid-base property, enhancing propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts show the best performance, featuring moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, which promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizes metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the strategic use of promoters. These promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see improved dispersion and stability through the addition of metal oxides, which modify coordination and electronic states. The introduction of noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, making it a promising solution for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite reconstruction shows promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance, addressing challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. Notably, it can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. Additionally, it can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts have enhanced their stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, with the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrating 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. This innovation offers a low-cost, eco-friendly catalyst for PDH, leveraging Co's earth abundance for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, boosting propylene selectivity and yield in propane dehydrogenation. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which curbs coke formation and methane production, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    