Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over extended periods without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. The catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, has two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content significantly improves stability and regenerability by preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for PDH, addressing fabrication challenges. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity. Zeolite encapsulation boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This novel approach enables rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications, particularly in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design for proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Zeolites, such as Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have been used as supports to achieve high metal dispersion and minimize side reactions, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guide the rational design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, with the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism being particularly relevant. A porous copper-aluminum framework material has shown promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, indicating potential for further advancements in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating a stable Pt1 site. This design, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoating through atomic layer deposition prevent Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds, reducing coke formation and increasing olefin selectivity. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies and in situ characterization, tackling design, fabrication, and performance challenges. Key strategies include precise control of metal particle size, preparation of tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilization of metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulation of metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture and anchor active metals. These strategies enhance structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, as evidenced by the stabilization effect of Pt through strong bonds, the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt catalysts, and the preservation of porous texture and anchoring of active metals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, like γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, improving PDH stability and selectivity. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite, leading to highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and excellent PDH catalytic performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using In as a promoter in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. In promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and enhances propylene selectivity and stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs suppress side reactions and inhibit coke deposition, improving Pt atom dispersion. Alloying Pt with these promoters ameliorates active components and prevents deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host sites. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst for propane dehydrogenation exhibits high efficiency and stability. Its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, optimizes performance and minimizes platinum usage, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Hierarchical structures are explored for stable and accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compounds in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These nanoparticles operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation faced by traditional catalysts. The catalysts are synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. This approach avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, ensuring long-term stability and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio improves specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The preparation method, based on Dzwigaj's technique, identifies small Co particles in silanols as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to deactivation. The earth abundance of Co suggests long-term utility for this eco-friendly and advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating energy barriers for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and cracking reactions, and increasing barriers for CC bond cleavage, reducing methane formation. This improves anti-coking ability and selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the ZnPt/HZ catalyst, optimized with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. Its stable active species and strong carbon resistance, linked to the Pt-Zn interaction, ensure reaction stability. With higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous catalysts, this innovation challenges traditional understanding and opens new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, with variable Al3+penta site levels to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content boosts stability and regenerability by preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and regeneration stability. This boosts propene selectivity, formation rate, and maintains catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites show significantly enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, these nanoparticles maintain high initial propane conversion and undergo slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days, demonstrating their superiority in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, used as supports for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, have been demonstrated in the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst with outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [140], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ led to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143], [144]). Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies (Quote [166], [179]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth and carbidic phase formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation, which addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, leading to an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C. This catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt, and using carriers like Al2O3, nanocarbon, and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, as demonstrated by the stabilization of Pt through strong bonds and the synthesis of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on strengthening metal-support interactions, notably through support modification. This method has proven effective, as seen in the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, which exhibited high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites further enhanced Pt catalyst stability in PDH. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared using an improved post-synthesis strategy, showed excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The stability was attributed to the inhibition of coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, demonstrating the effectiveness of these strategies in enhancing catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve promoter metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and coke resistance. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals optimize Pt-Sn interaction and acid-base properties. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit superior performance with moderate coke deposition and enhanced surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, increasing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on the strategic use of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, which suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve Pt atom dispersion, thereby enhancing stability. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit significantly from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, which improves active species dispersion and modifies the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design maximizes catalytic activity while minimizing platinum usage, crucial for industrial applications. The h-BN nanosheets provide a high surface area, abundant edges, and amino group terminations, making them an ideal support for the Pt/Cu catalyst. This catalyst exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, incorporating promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures are being explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promising effects on the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. Unlike traditional catalysts requiring hydrogen dilution and excess tin, these nanoparticles preserve atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst operates without hydrogen addition, optimizing propane conversion and productivity. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, it forms atomically mixed intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under reaction conditions, it achieves >66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene. Partial regeneration is possible, maintaining 97% initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation demonstrate that increasing metal particle size boosts specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, highlighting the significance of particle size and composition control for enhanced stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in PDH after prereduction. CoOx species easily reduce to active Co particles, avoiding cracking and carbon deposition issues linked to Co3O4 and Co0 particles. This design offers a cost-effective, eco-friendly solution, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve adding copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. Optimizing Cu loading to 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst's improved performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the interaction between Pt and Cu, which suppresses coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. Its composition, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation by anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabrication with varying Al3+penta site levels disperses Pt-Sn clusters, preventing agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost electron density, increasing propene formation rate, while the zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. This innovation overcomes challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, enabling the creation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, significantly enhancing PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation within a day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and retain 8% conversion after 30 days. This approach opens up new opportunities for catalytic applications by allowing the discovery of other transition metal-based alloy catalysts with various compositions and structures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent advancements suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strengthening metal-support interactions through support modification, a particularly effective method. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts for PDH exhibit high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, results in highly stable catalysts. Sn species are incorporated into the dealuminated beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed due to strong interactions with Sn(IV) sites. These catalysts show excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters like In in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters notably improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. In-promoted catalysts, in particular, showed superior stability with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the strategic introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and rare-earth elements (REEs), which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced dispersion and stability through the addition of another metal oxide, which modifies coordination and electronic states. Noble metals further boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures are explored for more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction showing promising effects on the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits in propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation. It exhibits over 66% thermodynamic conversion and over 99% selectivity to propylene, without hydrogen addition, enhancing productivity. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation demonstrate that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, underscoring the significance of particle size and composition control in enhancing catalytic stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and offering a low-cost, eco-friendly solution for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the use of Cu to boost the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction curbs propylene adsorption, raises the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and restrains coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a ZnPt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring a 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn composition on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance. This design breaks traditional understanding and offers new avenues for catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters on Al2O3 supports enriched with Al3+penta sites. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are notably influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which effectively prevents the agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters into larger Pt nanoparticles during consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, as demonstrated in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, which facilitates product desorption. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, typically hindered by the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. Mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, offer new opportunities for catalytic applications, particularly in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements (Quote 2). This synergy allows ODH to occur at lower temperatures, making it attractive industrially (Quotes 5, 6). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy and selectivity (Quote 7). Insights into CH activation can guide the design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (Quote 181). The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, with high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, achieves outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quotes 139, 140, 141). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and stability (Quotes 143, 144). Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, potentially activated by oxygen, may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation (Quotes 166, 167).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Ni-Sn alloying hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation, which is crucial for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with virtually no deactivation over a month, effectively addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent migration. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and reducing coke formation, with Si also predicted to modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. Notable examples include stabilizing Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, synthesizing zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability, and stabilizing highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, as demonstrated by the high stability of PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts due to strong metal-support interactions. The addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites has also been shown to enhance electronic interactions between Pt and Ga, improving catalyst stability. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in excellent catalytic performance for PDH. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals as promoters, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst demonstrated superior performance with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, achieving higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction and alloy formation. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs improve central active components and inhibit deactivation in Pt-based catalysts, enhancing stability and dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, benefit from forming oxide compounds that modify coordination and electronic states, boosting stability. Introducing appropriate metal oxides or noble metals significantly enhances catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interaction, leads to improved efficiency. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, where doping with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improves dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, such as ZnAl2O4 and Mg(Al)O, also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, particularly hydrotalcite reconstruction, provide more stable and accessible active sites for superior PDH performance. These strategies aim to address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic conversion limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation addresses challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution to boost productivity. The catalyst, synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, retains atom mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. Performance data exhibits over 66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene, with partial regeneration maintaining 97% of initial activity and selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This development overcomes traditional limitations, enhancing catalytic stability and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation demonstrate that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, underscoring the significance of controlling particle size and composition for enhanced stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, thereby addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) demonstrates high activity and selectivity. The confined small Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving the anti-coking ability and catalytic stability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the ZnPt/HZ catalyst, which achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new opportunities for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which prevent agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content is key to sinter-resistance and catalyst regeneration, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption, selectivity, and formation rate. The zeolite's confinement boosts regeneration stability, maintaining activity through multiple cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, Pt alloy formation with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. Industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) processes have used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for decades. However, Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of catalytic selectivity. Sn introduction forms an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, enhancing catalytic performance through facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [134], [135]). The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [140], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ results in weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143], [144]). Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, resulting in the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This innovation demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent migration. Pt can also be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 can also prevent sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on innovative synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size for Pt-based catalysts, tailoring the size and phase of bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, encapsulating Pt in zeolites for high stability, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species, transforming zeolite structures to stabilize metals, and achieving Sn single-site stabilization. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, developed by Lu et al., exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy led to the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, with Sn species incorporated into the framework and Pt species highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters. These catalysts showed excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best stability test performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these metals forming alloys to ameliorate active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have their stability enhanced by forming oxide compounds that modify coordination and electronic states, improving active species dispersion. Introducing appropriate metal oxides or noble metals boosts catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has been developed for propane dehydrogenation, showcasing high efficiency and stability. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency while minimizing platinum usage, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) that improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, Mg(Al)O, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure have shown promise. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing enhanced PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, without the need for hydrogen dilution. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, even under harsh conditions, with propane conversion only decreasing from 41 to 39% in 120 minutes. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This advancement addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion associated with hydrogen dilution.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the optimization of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts in ethane dehydrogenation by controlling particle size and composition, enhancing stability and performance. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, this catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with 0.5 wt% Co loading, achieved significant propane conversion and propylene selectivity after prereduction under optimal conditions. The confined small Co particles are identified as active sites, offering inspiration for the design of low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading enhances propylene selectivity and yield. The intimate Pt-Cu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, reducing coke formation and suppressing cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This interaction also suppresses methane formation, significantly improving overall catalytic stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the ZnPt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable active species and strong carbon resistance, due to the Pt-Zn interaction, contribute to its exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation. This design, with more Zn and less Pt, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of Al2O3 supports, where high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, enhancing product desorption for high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity in carbon monoxide oxidation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking processes (Quote [2], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [134], [135], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). This catalyst exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, with lower deactivation rates than other Pt-based catalysts, due to its high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ to create weaker Brnsted sites (Quote [150]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Notably, the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on carrier surfaces, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent Pt migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent BO bonds and modifying selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies for improved stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and stabilizing metals through zeolite structure transformation. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, enhancing structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. For example, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, developed by Lu et al., exhibit high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. demonstrated that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability by enhancing electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly stable catalysts. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, achieving good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using Ce, In, La, Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals added as promoters enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst demonstrated the best performance, featuring moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt-based catalysts, improving stability and performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to adjust electronic properties and enhance dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see stability improvements through the introduction of additional metal oxides, modifying coordination and electronic states for better dispersion and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A Pt/Cu cluster catalyst supported on boron nitride nanosheets has demonstrated high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, such as ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have been shown to enhance PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable and accessible active sites, crucial for superior PDH performance, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds impacting the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This is achieved by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst features atomically mixed precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and high selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation show that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, emphasizing the role of particle size and composition control in enhancing catalytic stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with CoOx species easily reducible to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites. After prereduction, the catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH suggest its long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate Pt-Cu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and improving anti-coking ability, thus enhancing catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional wisdom and offers new opportunities for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Pt-Sn clusters on mesoporous Al2O3 supports enriched with Al3+penta sites, which prevent agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles. A high Al3+penta site content optimizes performance, addressing fabrication challenges and improving industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing zeolites with silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), showing a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergoing extremely slow deactivation over 30 days, even under harsh operating conditions. This enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, represents a significant advancement in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity minimizing side reactions (Quote [140]). Research on porous copper-aluminum framework materials suggests potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the role of surface oxygen species and the redox property of the metal center (Quote [166], [170]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation, as shown by computational calculations and experimental evidence.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, designed for propane dehydrogenation at 600C, exhibits minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites, contributing to the catalyst's outstanding stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These approaches improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on strengthening metal-support interactions, notably through support modification. Lu et al. demonstrated high stability, activity, and selectivity in PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts for PDH, attributing it to strong metal-support interactions facilitated by γ-Al2O3 nanosheets. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, which disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters. These advancements enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH, as seen in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using various metals as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties, which boosts propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, in-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts showed the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters. These promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, are introduced to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Pt, known for its high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefits significantly from these promoters, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Promoters suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced dispersion of active species and catalytic stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, which modifies coordination and electronic states.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent innovation in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modifications with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O further boost performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. However, understanding the exact relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports remains a challenge, necessitating more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the superior PDH performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts with reconstructed hydrotalcite-like compounds.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the challenge of carbon buildup and alloy segregation, common issues in traditional catalysts that require hydrogen dilution and excess tin. The new catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and its benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, this catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, demonstrating its efficiency and stability. The catalyst can also be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of its initial activity and >99% of its initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, boosts catalytic stability in ethane dehydrogenation. Enlarging metal particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, offering strategies to tackle fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) demonstrates enhanced catalytic stability. Small Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, enhancing anti-coking ability and catalytic stability. This is attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which suppresses propylene adsorption, coke formation, cracking reactions, and methane formation, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas, thanks to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, with high Al3+penta site content preventing agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The confined GaPt alloy boosts electron density, facilitating product desorption, while the zeolite's restriction maintains catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). This preparation strategy, as demonstrated with PtLa and PtY nanoparticles, significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, these intermetallic nanoparticles show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, addressing the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, potentially lowering the energy requirement for dehydrogenation (Quote [2]). This synergy allows ODH to occur at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes (Quote [5]), making it an attractive industrial technology (Quote [6]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including the proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [139]). The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, shows better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent innovations in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits remarkable stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with virtually no deactivation observed over a month, effectively addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt, and using carriers like Al2O3 for strong interaction. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. The stabilization effect of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the synthesis of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exemplify these strategies, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches, with support modification being particularly effective. The PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst, featuring high activity and selectivity in PDH, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and subsequent metal impregnation, results in highly stable catalysts for PDH. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability and dispersion of Pt atoms. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide or noble metal, enhancing catalytic performance by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites. These advancements address challenges by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves using boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters. This innovation optimizes performance by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheets' edge BO defects, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and making it suitable for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on modifying Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, created by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting performance. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, enhances stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, with the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds showing promise in improving PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research for optimized catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, with well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles of 1.6 ± 0.67 nm in diameter. Regeneration studies indicate partial recovery of activity and selectivity after PDH cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling metal particle size and composition. Increasing particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. This highlights the importance of precise control for improved stability and efficiency in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared through high-temperature calcination and prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This catalyst's high activity and selectivity offer inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst design for PDH, leveraging Co's earth abundance for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve adding copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by inhibiting propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance, making it a promising design for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters, improving stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters, with high electron density, enhance propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The PtREE incorporation, conducted by co-impregnation and high-temperature heating, results in Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles that significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The presence of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling operations at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports for metal catalysts, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and stability in dehydrogenation of light alkanes, offering a promising approach to address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation, which is consistent with experimental findings showing faster deactivation of pure Ni catalysts compared to NiSn alloy-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for outstanding stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and modifying the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture to anchor active metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were created using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated beta (Si-beta), and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to the inhibition of coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of metal promoters (Ce, In, La, and Fe) in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals as promoters enhance Pt-Sn interaction and tune acid-base properties, boosting propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to enhance central active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to improve active species dispersion and catalytic stability. Noble metal addition significantly boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has been developed for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in platinum usage and catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency and reduced platinum requirement, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides stable and accessible active sites, improving PDH reaction performance. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction has shown promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in stability and performance. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high selectivity to propylene, avoiding the need for hydrogen dilution. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, it ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. Under reaction conditions, it achieves over 66% conversion and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst's Pt-Sn nanoparticles, with an average size of 1.6 ± 0.67 nm, maintain their structure after 120 minutes of reaction. Regeneration studies show partial recovery of activity and selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, highlighting the importance of controlling particle size and composition for optimized stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, demonstrating the importance of particle size and confinement in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity and yield, while the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst exhibits improved anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and suppressing cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. The higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage also suppresses methane formation, with the unique PtCu bimetallic interaction being the primary origin of these enhancements.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst is more Zn-rich and Pt-lean than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, breaking traditional understanding and paving the way for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites within mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability, which are critical for performance optimization in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These defects enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy, when applied to late transition metals, results in Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity. The novel Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operating temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [140], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143], [144]). Recent advancements, such as the development of a porous copper-aluminum framework material, show promise for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Boron, by blocking sub-surface sites, prevents carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom prevention on the surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats and loading into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces also prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 and additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent BO bonds and Si's electronic and geometric modifications further enhance selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling particle size for Pt-based catalysts, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing Pt through strong bonds, encapsulating Pt in zeolites for high stability, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, constructing surface metal species using single-site precursors, stabilizing single-sites in frameworks, and stabilizing bimetallic sites by the ETS-2 support. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification, which strengthens metal-support interactions. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, developed by Lu et al., exhibit high stability in PDH due to strong interactions between metals and supports. Ma et al. demonstrated that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites boosts Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, yields highly stable catalysts for PDH. These catalysts show excellent catalytic performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity, while the strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of various promoter metals in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters, notably In, improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving the dispersion and electronic properties of Pt atoms. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to suppress side reactions and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability and dispersion through the introduction of additional metal oxides, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent innovation is a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges. The Pt/Cu cluster's unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, ensures high efficiency and stability while minimizing platinum usage, optimizing industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include: 1) Bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. 2) Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides. 3) Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys, enhancing propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides stable, accessible active sites for better PDH performance. The reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds impacts the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation addresses challenges in catalyst design by preventing carbon buildup and avoiding alloy segregation, without the need for hydrogen dilution. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. This catalyst can achieve near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (&gt;66%) and &gt;99% selectivity, without decreasing productivity due to hydrogen addition. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and &gt;99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. The synthesis process forms atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, creating very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, with an average size of 1.3  0.6 nm, and avoiding the formation of a tin oxide phase.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that adjusting the particle size and Sn/Pt ratio in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts boosts ethane dehydrogenation efficiency. Larger metal particles and higher Sn/Pt ratios increase specific activity and decrease carbon deposition, offering strategies to optimize supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, inspired by Dzwigaj's method. This design achieves high propane conversion (72%) and propylene selectivity (92%) post-prereduction. The confined Co particles serve as active sites for PDH, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The catalyst's high catalytic ability, selectivity, and Co's earth abundance offer a low-cost, ecofriendly solution for PDH, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve adding copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, while improving anti-coking ability. This enhancement is attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional wisdom and offers new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, where high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption, selectivity, and formation rate. The zeolite's confinement boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by the low chemical potential of their oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite, which retained 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction under harsh conditions. This advancement addresses catalyst design and fabrication challenges, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, making the process more energy-efficient than non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieve high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the design of improved catalysts for lower temperature dehydrogenation of C2 and C3 alkanes. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing coke formation and enhancing the robustness of supported metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring PtB clusters and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture. Notably, the stabilization effect of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts have been achieved. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on strengthening metal-support interactions, notably through support modification. Using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions stabilizes PtSn clusters, as seen in a high-performance PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and incorporated Sn species in the Si-beta framework. This catalyst exhibits excellent PDH performance with high propene selectivity and formation rate, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic introduction of promoters. These promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt-based catalysts, effectively suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, known for their efficiency in alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see stability improvements through the addition of metal oxides, which modify coordination and electronic states. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system optimizes design for industrial applications by reducing platinum usage while maintaining high catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on hydrotalcites. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxide, and single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure, as in Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3, boost PDH reaction performance. PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical microstructure exploration aims to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, avoiding the need for hydrogen dilution. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. Its benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide formation, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and high selectivity to propylene, without hydrogen addition, optimizing performance. It can be partially regenerated, maintaining high initial activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that adjusting metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio can enhance specific activity and reduce carbon deposition, demonstrating that precise control of catalyst particle size and composition improves stability and performance, addressing key challenges in design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, which features ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. The confined Co particles' high catalytic ability and selectivity offer inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges. Particle size is crucial, as bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles can lead to cracking and carbon deposition, impacting performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for propane dehydrogenation highlight the role of Cu in enhancing Pt/Al2O3's catalytic stability. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The bimetallic interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    