Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into larger Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1). The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, with their high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by the low chemical potential of their oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). These catalysts show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite, which retained 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guide the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent Pt migration and sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. Specific examples include the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, the use of zeolites for single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability, and the stabilization of highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, which showed high activity, selectivity, and stability. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, possibly due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, resulted in excellent catalytic performance and stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, enhancing the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the introduction of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve central active components and inhibit deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced performance through the introduction of additional metal oxides, improving dispersion and stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides stable, accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds, which significantly boosts PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation seen in traditional platinum-tin alloy catalysts. The new catalysts avoid the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalysts preserve atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. The benign interaction with the silica support ensures high metal dispersion and small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticle sizes, contributing to the catalyst's performance and stability. Regeneration studies show that the catalyst can be partially restored, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) demonstrates 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. The confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, highlighting the importance of particle size and confinement in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional dehydrogenation stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content enhances stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites. Their high electron density boosts product desorption, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. Zeolite confinement improves regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE incorporation, conducted by co-impregnation and heating under O2 and H2, results in the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, significantly enhancing catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability. Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which experience severe coke formation and deactivation within one day under harsh operating conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, achieving dehydrogenation at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation can guide the design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites as supports achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity minimizing side reactions. Recent reports suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. NiAu surfaces make C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation and enhance CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and Al2O3 overcoating, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. These advancements, such as the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, which is particularly effective. For instance, the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH showed high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, possibly due to enhanced electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements involve the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, which includes dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This strategy results in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximized surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. The promoters' integrated impacts on redox properties, surface composition, and lattice oxygen capacity determine overall stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the addition of another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction positively impacting the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The catalyst's design preserves the atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, it can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, demonstrating its effectiveness in addressing the challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger metal particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio increase specific activity, while reducing carbon deposition, indicating effective strategies for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, with 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles, which are the active sites for the PDH reaction. The earth abundance of Co supports long-term utility. Bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles on the SiBeta support contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, highlighting the importance of particle size in performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and selectivity are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the preparation of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's stability. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by the low chemical potential of their oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under O2 and H2 at high temperatures, show a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. This is a significant improvement over conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which experience severe coke formation and deactivation within one day under harsh operating conditions. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on the degallated zeolite enhance PDH catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent developments suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be loaded into MgAlOx hydrotalcite layers and enclosed in MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and performance. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, as evidenced by the stabilization of Pt through strong bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters and improves stability, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for preparing highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the dealuminated beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit superior performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have also been studied. Introducing another metal oxide improves active species dispersion and catalytic stability by modifying host metal oxide sites. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure, have shown improved performance. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, crucial for superior PDH performance, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds. These strategies aim to address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, although the exact relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports remains a challenge.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This is achieved by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and through the benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support, which prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of a tin oxide phase. Notably, this catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst has demonstrated near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance their stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest effective strategies for catalyst design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for PDH. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH are promising for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst exhibits improved anti-coking ability due to inhibited propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and suppressing lighter hydrocarbon cracking. Additionally, the higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage suppresses methane formation. These effects are attributed to the unique PtCu bimetallic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 h at 525 C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, offers a new approach to stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3, where high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, improving stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, enhancing product desorption. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, with the catalyst maintaining unchanged activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe coke formation and deactivation, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolites show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts' high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation make them promising for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms are crucial for the rational design of efficient catalysts. Notably, the use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity. These strategies address the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 and additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond enhances sintering resistance and reduces coke formation. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, proving effective and simple. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts by Lu et al. and Pt catalysts with Ga addition by Ma et al. showed improved stability in PDH due to strong metal-support interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly stable catalysts for PDH. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta exhibit excellent catalytic performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promotion has shown the best performance, stabilizing metallic Pt particles and enhancing propylene selectivity and stability by promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides. This strategy addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve central active components and inhibit deactivation. This approach suppresses side reactions, inhibits coke deposition, and stabilizes active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition to adjust electronic properties and enhance stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, like CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have their catalytic stability improved by forming oxide compounds that modify the coordination and electronic state of host sites. Introducing appropriate metal oxides or noble metals boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation due to its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding between copper and edge BO defects on the nanosheets. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts, like PtIn and PtGa, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O oxides, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 and PtCu alloys have shown increased propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with 3D oxide nanosheet arrays showing superior PDH performance due to hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction. These advancements aim to address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. This interaction is preserved, avoiding alloy segregation and tin oxide phase formation. The catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains >39% propane conversion over 120 minutes, outperforming other tested catalysts. TEM images confirm the well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles with an average diameter of 1.6 ± 0.67 nm. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high propane conversion (72%) and propylene selectivity (92%), with CoOx species easily reducible to active metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas. Small confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co supports long-term utility and ecofriendly design, offering inspiration for advanced catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimal 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced anti-coking ability and catalytic performance are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, making it a breakthrough in dehydrogenation catalyst design with implications for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are enhanced by a high content of Al3+penta sites, which prevent Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters enhance propene selectivity and formation rate due to their high electron density, which boosts product desorption. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, with the catalyst maintaining activity over four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation and subsequent heating, exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, offering a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a strategy to lower energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, as noted in [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], and [7]. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, as mentioned in [5] and [6]. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design, as stated in [7], to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Insights into CH activation mechanisms, as discussed in [134] through [146], provide a platform for rational catalyst design. Notably, the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, as described in [139] through [144], exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions. The use of zeolites as supports, as explained in [134] and [135], facilitates high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, enhancing catalyst stability. Recent reports, as indicated in [166] through [172], suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, pointing to a promising direction for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and carbidic phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the electron density around single-atom-like Pt1 sites. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as Pt in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by anchoring Pt and reducing coke formation. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification, with the latter being notably effective. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst and Ma et al.'s addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, significantly improves stability by stabilizing metal clusters through strong interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation. This results in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters, leading to excellent catalytic performance and stability in PDH processes. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) to improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. These metals, particularly In, significantly boost initial activity and stability by promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, resulting in higher propylene selectivity and stability with moderate coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been studied for stability enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and catalytic stability. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This design, which utilizes h-BN nanosheets with high surface area and abundant edges terminated as amino groups, optimizes performance for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Hierarchical structures are explored for more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst, synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensures atomic mixing is preserved during catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, it operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, even under harsh conditions. Additionally, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications by achieving stable and selective catalytic performance at thermodynamic limits.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the impact of composition and metal particle size on the catalytic stability of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts in ethane dehydrogenation. Findings show that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These insights suggest that precise control over particle size and composition can optimize catalyst performance and stability in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and enhancing industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, making it a promising solution for overcoming fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity in carbon monoxide oxidation in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process, using PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina, faces issues with rapid deactivation due to coke deposition on Pt, causing a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. To address this, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have developed a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina, boosting catalytic performance by providing facile diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation and heating under O2 and H2, exhibit superior performance compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which experience severe coke formation and deactivation within one day. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation (H2 + O2 -> H2O), lowering energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. This energy intensification advantage motivates ODH's development for industrial use, but commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Notably, zeolite-supported Pt catalysts, such as Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, exhibit outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity from Fe3+ cations, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. This strategy results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. For instance, synthesis parameters influence the size of Pt-based catalysts, and the approach can tailor bimetallic nanoparticles' size and phase. Strong PtOCe bonds contribute to stabilization, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability. Synthesis procedures maintain porous texture and anchor active metals, while single-site metal precursors construct well-defined surface species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as in PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2 catalysts, has proven effective, with pentacoordinate Al3+ and Ga3+ ions stabilizing PtSn clusters. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits high stability and selectivity in PDH due to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites in the Si-beta framework. This strategy inhibits coke formation and sintering, maintaining catalytic activity over multiple cycles. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Specifically, In-promoted catalysts exhibited the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to ameliorate active components and inhibit deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to improve dispersion and stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in microstructure and morphology enhancement for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The preservation of atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, along with the benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support, prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of the interaction between Pt and Sn. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity while reducing carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design results in high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The catalyst's preparation involves Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, yielding a material that, after prereduction, demonstrates propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of 92%. The confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic performance are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production. This unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 hours in propane dehydrogenation without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This catalyst, with a higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabrication with varying Al3+penta site levels disperses Pt-Sn2 clusters, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in zeolites act as active sites, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalyst maintaining activity over four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has long used PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Sn introduction forms an alloy with Pt, mitigating these issues. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as an advanced catalyst support, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation within a day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial conversion and slow deactivation, even after extended periods. The presence of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Using zeolites as supports achieves high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and carbidic phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. This design results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies for improved stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species, and transforming zeolite structures for metal stabilization. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by enhancing structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by the stabilization of PtSn clusters on Al2O3 nanosheets and the addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, significantly improves stability by enhancing metal-support interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared through an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibits excellent catalytic performance and stability in PDH due to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites confined in the Si-beta framework. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications by improving catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, and others) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, which are critical for catalytic stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability. The integrated impacts of these factors determine the overall stability of the catalysts, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which enhance the dispersion of Pt atoms. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see improved dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide. These advancements optimize performance and address fabrication challenges in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance PDH performance. These strategies aim for highly dispersed Pt catalysts. Challenges remain in understanding Pt-M-support relationships, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored for more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieves >66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene, operating without hydrogen addition to the feed.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing particle size and increasing Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which exhibit high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. This catalyst design offers inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced PDH catalysts, leveraging the earth abundance of Co for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing Cu loading at 0.5 wt% to achieve 90.8% propylene selectivity and a 36.5% yield. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This unique bimetallic interaction also suppresses methane formation, enhancing the catalyst's anti-coking ability and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of a ZnPt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, with a 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn composition supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, leading to admirable reaction stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring sinter-resistance and enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. These confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters exhibit high electron density, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with the catalyst maintaining activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach using mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests enables rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, stabilized by metal oxides, may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation than conventional Pt-based catalysts, potentially enabling propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic stability effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction with Pt to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be loaded into the spaces between the layers of MgAlOx hydrotalcite and enclosed in the interspace of MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in highly siliceous chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent Pt sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 can also prevent sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can have similar effects as Sn in improving stability. B and Si can also prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing both electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to enhanced electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst, in particular, exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys to ameliorate active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been studied for stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, which modifies coordination and electronic states for improved dispersion and stability. Noble metal introduction can significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modifications using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides are also explored. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved PDH performance. These advancements aim to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH outcomes. Challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist, necessitating further research. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being investigated to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design and fabrication by achieving near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene without the efficiency-lowering hydrogen addition.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability and performance in direct dehydrogenation processes. Specifically, increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest effective strategies for optimizing catalyst design and addressing fabrication challenges in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design results in high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieving propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of 92%. The confined Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This catalyst design offers inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This strategy addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation include Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on highly ordered mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels, these supports disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, enhancing stability and regenerability. A high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show significantly enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. ODH operates at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites have been used as supports to achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with the potential for operation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst with outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, showing no significant deactivation over 1 month. This addresses challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe in Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2, respectively, prevent sintering. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si modifies the selectivity of Pt catalysts by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies and in situ characterization for atomic-level insights. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, and using single-site precursors for well-defined surface species. These approaches improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt (Quote 5), and zeolite-confined Pt catalysts exhibit high stability (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include strengthening metal-support interactions through strategies like nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters and improves stability, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibited the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through the introduction of promoters. Promoters, such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve central active components and inhibit deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and stabilizing active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability and performance through the introduction of another metal oxide or noble metal, improving active species dispersion and modifying host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This system minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, particularly for Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved performance. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalyst is synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. It exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple cycles. This approach optimizes performance by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion associated with hydrogen dilution.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to enhance stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. CoOx species within the zeolite reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. The preparation method involves high-temperature calcination and prereduction, achieving propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of 92%. Bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. The earth abundance of Co supports its long-term utility in ecofriendly and advanced catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. Additionally, the higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage on PtCu/Al2O3 suppresses methane formation, improving propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. Specifically, the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrates high propylene yield and exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, which resist carbon deposition. This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, enhancing product desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests (surface framework defects). These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as shown in Fig. 2. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe coke formation and deactivation within a day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles retain 8% propane conversion even after 30 days of reaction. This addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering the energy requirement for alkane conversion. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its development for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, activated by metal oxides, may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, potentially enabling the process at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom prevention on the surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. Demonstrating outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, this catalyst showed almost no deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 and additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds and Si's electronic and geometric modifications enhance selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size for Pt-based catalysts (Quote 2), tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles' size and phase (Quote 3), stabilizing Pt through strong bonds with supports (Quote 5), encapsulating metals in zeolites for high stability (Quote 6), maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals (Quote 7), preparing uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles (Quote 8), using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species (Quote 9), and stabilizing Sn single-sites and bimetallic PtZn sites (Quotes 11 and 12). These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Examples include the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst by Lu et al., which exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by an improved post-synthesis strategy, shows excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals further enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition to improve Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see stability enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states for better performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, optimizes catalytic performance while minimizing platinum usage. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 enhances catalyst performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost PDH efficiency. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH performance. Hydrotalcite reconstruction positively impacts the microstructure of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH outcomes.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These nanoparticles operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide phase formation, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion and high selectivity to propylene, demonstrating excellent stability and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The active sites are the small metallic Co particles, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieved propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of around 92%. The earth abundance of Co suggests long-term utility, making it a promising, low-cost, and ecofriendly catalyst for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This interaction also suppresses methane formation, improving overall catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, containing 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 h at 525 C. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures a stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, making this catalyst more Zn-rich and Pt-sparse than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, thus breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents the agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters into larger Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost propene selectivity and formation rate due to their high electron density, facilitating product desorption. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of fabricating Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, which is typically difficult due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quotes 1, 4, 6). These catalysts outperform conventional PtSn catalysts, showing significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by retaining 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction under harsh conditions (quotes 14, 16).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom accumulation prevention.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for improved stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity through electronic and geometric changes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These methods improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges. For instance, the synthesis approach can tailor bimetallic nanoparticles' size and phase, stabilize Pt through strong bonds, and maintain porous texture while anchoring active metals. The synthesis of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability and the preparation of uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles are reported. Single-site metal precursors construct well-defined surface metal species, and the transformation of zeolite structures stabilizes metals. These advancements optimize catalyst performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include nanopore-encaged metal, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, has shown excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability of dehydrogenation and regeneration with almost unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Specifically, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. The introduction of In also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, are optimized through alloying with these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts (CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, CrOx-based) have also been studied, with the introduction of another metal oxide improving active species dispersion and catalytic stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes include a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster system, which optimizes performance by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, leads to high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with other oxides is also key. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance PDH performance. The aim is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in improving PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further efficient methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, addressing challenges in catalyst design. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. This approach results in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles, and avoids the formation of a tin oxide phase, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest effective strategies for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with CoOx species easily reducing to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for PDH. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, showed 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small confined Co particles are proven to be active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH suggest long-term utility for this ecofriendly and advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production. This unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement upon copper addition.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    