Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, facilitated by the interaction between Pt and Zn, contribute to its outstanding dehydrogenation stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels effectively preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters into larger Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites. Their high electron density enhances product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with the catalyst maintaining activity through four cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. The formation of Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses a mesoporous zeolite with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Pt alloy catalysts, when applied to late transition metals, incorporate a large amount of the second metal, such as in the PtCo alloy, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades. However, Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating Pt ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, enhancing catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe coke formation and deactivation within one day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. The PtREE incorporation in the mesoporous zeolite was conducted by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under an O2 flow and subsequently under H2 at high temperatures. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the overall energy requirement. This lower temperature requirement of ODH compared to non-ODH and cracking is encouraging for industrial application. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy of the dehydrogenation step with hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, with copper providing active sites, may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be loaded into MgAlOx hydrotalcite layers and enclosed in MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and modifying the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications. For instance, the synthesis approach can tailor the size and phase of bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, and achieve the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks, as reported in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, improving electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. An improved post-synthesis strategy for preparing highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated beta (Si-beta), and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong interactions with Sn(IV) sites. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability of dehydrogenation and regeneration with stable catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals, when added as promoters, enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties. The nature of the promoter significantly affects the redox properties, surface composition, and lattice oxygen capacity, influencing initial activity and stability. In-promoted catalysts, for instance, exhibit the best performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds, significantly enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, leads to remarkable catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, crucial for PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction positively impacts the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, without the need for hydrogen dilution, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, enhancing catalytic stability. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability in ethane dehydrogenation processes. Larger metal particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios increase specific activity while reducing carbon deposition, suggesting effective strategies for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (with a 0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This design addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts stem from the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This mechanism diminishes coke formation, suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, and curbs methane formation, all while improving propylene selectivity. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's exceptional performance. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate due to their high electron density. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial PDH process, using PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina, faces issues with rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. To address this, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt, diluting the surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. A siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure is used as an advanced catalyst support, boosting catalytic performance by providing facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent developments suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying Ni with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable. NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation, enhancing CO bond formation, and removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and sintering. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition also prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 can also prevent sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals using hydrothermal synthesis, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, constructing well-defined surface metal species with single-site precursors, and stabilizing metals through zeolite structure transformation. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Examples include the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst by Lu et al., which exhibits high stability due to strong metal-support interactions, and the addition of Ga by Ma et al., which enhances the stability of Pt catalysts. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared through an improved post-synthesis strategy, shows excellent catalytic performance and stability for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Specifically, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. The introduction of In stabilizes metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds to ameliorate active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been studied for stability enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, which modifies the coordination and electronic state of host sites. These strategies greatly enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4 and ZSM-5, and single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure have also shown promise. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, as seen in the superior PDH performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts with reconstructed hydrotalcite-like compounds.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by preventing a decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by achieving near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and maintaining high selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and reduces carbon deposition, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles, which are the active sites for the PDH reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, showed propane conversion of 72% with 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction under optimal conditions. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% increasing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This diminishes coke formation, suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, and improves propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures a stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts depend on Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses fabrication challenges by utilizing surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which rapidly deactivate due to coke deposition, the Pt alloy nanoparticles on degallated zeolites show significantly enhanced performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts retain high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. The preparation strategy also allows for the discovery of other transition metal-based alloy catalysts, opening new opportunities for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, demonstrated with the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ results in weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy enhances geometric and electronic promotion effects, crucial for stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electrons around the nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys anchoring Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and nanocarbon to prevent migration. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also resists sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds, reducing coke formation and increasing olefin selectivity. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt (quote 5), zeolite-confined Pt catalysts exhibit high stability (quote 6), and maintaining porous texture anchors active metals (quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst and the addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, significantly improves stability by strengthening metal-support interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared through an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibits excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals further enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties. In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability by stabilizing metallic Pt particles.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability and performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation, enhanced by promoter addition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has been developed for propane dehydrogenation, showcasing recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to high efficiency and stability. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further increase propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed and stable Pt catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide more accessible active sites, with promising effects on catalyst microstructure and PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation addresses the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation, common in traditional platinum-tin alloy catalysts. The new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the preservation of atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. This catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. The synthesis process and the catalyst's performance demonstrate significant progress in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes. Larger metal particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio increase specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while reducing carbon deposition, which addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The high catalytic ability and product selectivity of small confined Co particles offer novel inspiration for designing low-cost, ecofriendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic stability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 h at 525 C. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, which ensure stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts depend on Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration during cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites. This strategy boosts propene selectivity and formation rate due to the high electron density of the confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing silanol nests, which enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. When applied to late transition metals, this strategy produces Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity, such as the PtCo alloy for the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process, which has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for decades, faces issues with coke deposition on the Pt surface, leading to deactivation and loss of selectivity to propylene. To mitigate these problems, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Copper-aluminum framework materials have shown potential for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, leading to an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. In propane dehydrogenation at 600C, this catalyst exhibits outstanding stability, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 for strong interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces, prevent Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 and additives like Ga, In, and B improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring PtB clusters and reducing coke formation. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of Pt.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and constructing well-defined surface metal species. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the use of single-site metal precursors constructs defined surface metals. These advancements are crucial for enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modifications, which are particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for PDH. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, led to excellent catalytic performance and stability, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. The In-promoted catalyst, in particular, exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing dispersion of Pt atoms. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation due to their affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced performance through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving dispersion and stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, demonstrates high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvements in catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite reconstruction impacts microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst that operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. This catalyst, which avoids the need for hydrogen dilution and excess tin, addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity, without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity. Regeneration studies show partial recovery of activity and selectivity after PDH cycles. This approach enhances catalytic stability and addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the significance of controlling particle size and composition to improve stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for PDH. The earth abundance of Co supports its long-term utility. The preparation method, based on Dzwigaj's technique followed by high-temperature calcination, yields a catalyst with promising performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5% for propane dehydrogenation. This enhancement is attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. The higher energy barrier also suppresses methane formation, improving overall catalytic stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with their high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene. Sn introduction forms an alloy with Pt to dilute the surface and prevent coke formation. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites have been used as supports to achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ over Al3+, leading to weaker acid sites and minimizing side reactions. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth, and sub-surface boron prevents carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a novel catalyst design: double-decorated PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C. This design synergizes geometric and electronic effects, with Pb blocking three-fold Pt3 sites and Ca enriching single-atom-like Pt1 sites. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability, showing no deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and nanocarbon with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, or coating with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition, prevent Pt migration and sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding metals like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. Nonmetal elements B and Si can prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and modifying the selectivity of the Pt catalyst, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous textures. The synthesis of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability, uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles, and the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds are examples of these strategies. These advancements improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements involve highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters. These catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The nature of the promoter significantly affects the redox properties, surface composition, and lattice oxygen capacity, influencing initial activity and stability. In-promoted catalysts, for instance, showed the best performance with moderate coke deposition and the maximum level of surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability and performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing dispersion of Pt atoms. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, while metal oxide-based catalysts also see improvements through the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability under applied conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing activity, exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. The h-BN nanosheets, with high surface area and abundant edges, provide an optimal support for the catalyst, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. The aim is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst, synthesized with preserved Pt-Sn atomic mixing, avoids alloy segregation and tin oxide phase formation, common issues with traditional supports. The benign interaction with silica support ensures high metal dispersion and small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticle size. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene, exceeding 66% conversion and 99% selectivity. The catalyst shows stability, with propane conversion remaining at 39% after 120 minutes under harsh conditions, outperforming other tested catalysts. Partial regeneration is possible through mild oxidation and reduction cycles, maintaining 97% initial activity and 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and PDH reaction, leading to atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that controlling particle size and composition can improve catalyst stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, which are highly efficient for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles, the active sites for the PDH reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by Dzwigaj's method and calcination, showed propane conversion of 72% with 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic stability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration. This catalyst, supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, features two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's reaction stability. Notably, the catalyst contains more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, challenging traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying levels of Al3+penta sites, effectively disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, preventing their agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, as demonstrated by the high stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, enhancing product desorption. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen flow, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. PtCo alloy catalysts, prepared using this strategy, exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina have been used in the industrial PDH process for nearly three decades, but Pt metal alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. Introducing Sn to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles dilutes the Pt surface and breaks up coke-generating ensembles. Using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe coke formation and deactivation within one day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH and cracking, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Understanding CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts can guide the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve a novel double-decoration strategy using Pb and Ca on PtGa intermetallics. This synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition, prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored size and phase, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors to construct well-defined surface metal species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, the synthesis approach can tailor the size and phase of bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, and maintain the porous texture while anchoring active Pt-based metals. The synthesis strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts ensures high stability, and the use of single-site metal precursors constructs well-defined surface metal species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strengthening metal-support interactions through nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst and the addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, has proven effective in stabilizing PtSn clusters and enhancing electronic interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation, exhibits high dispersion of Pt species and excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 at 550 C and >99% selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity over four cycles at 550 C. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Specifically, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. In also promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and increases propylene selectivity and stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and enhance Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see improved dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, particularly for Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved performance. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that can operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution. These catalysts preserve atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring interaction retention during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. This approach increases productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion associated with hydrogen addition. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, acting as active sites for PDH. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, showed propane conversion of 72% with 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small metallic Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus diminishing coke formation and suppressing cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This unique bimetallic interaction also suppresses methane formation, improving the anti-coking ability and catalytic stability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which uses high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn, achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, fabricated with varying levels of Al3+penta sites, effectively disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by their low chemical potential. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). These catalysts, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods, even under harsh operating conditions. This advancement overcomes the limitations of conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation. The use of mesoporous zeolites as supports opens new opportunities for catalytic applications, particularly in industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize dehydrogenation with hydrogen combustion and to design selective combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent findings suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating potential for significant advancements in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a novel catalyst design involving the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction with Pt to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent Pt migration. Pt can also be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 can also prevent sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si can prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, using hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture and anchor active metals, and employing single-site metal precursors to construct well-defined surface species. These strategies, exemplified by the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks, address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions, enhancing stability. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition, maximum surface Pt species, and higher propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy positively impacts the interaction between Pt and Sn, tunes acid-base properties, and enhances overall catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation due to their affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing platinum usage without compromising activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer [1,2]. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, enhances dispersion [3]. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost performance [4,5]. Hierarchical structures provide stable, accessible active sites, crucial for PDH reactions [10]. These advancements aim to overcome challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, without the need for hydrogen dilution. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion levels of over 66% and selectivity to propylene exceeding 99%. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to enhance stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The confined Co particles act as active sites, with bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contributing to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieved propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of 92%, demonstrating the catalyst's potential for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the preparation of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 h at 525°C in propane dehydrogenation. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, which resist carbon deposition. This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, with their high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances the catalyst's regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements. ODH operates at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its industrial development. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for light alkane dehydrogenation. Weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent advancements also include copper-aluminum framework materials, which show promising performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, potentially through a Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth and carbidic phase formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing catalytic stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent migration. Pt can also be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 can also prevent sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration, by anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, prevents sintering and reduces coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and performance. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, and using single-site metal precursors to construct well-defined surface species. These strategies, as reported in recent studies, have significantly improved the structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity of supported metal catalysts, addressing key challenges in their design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include strategies like the nanopore-encaged metal method, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification. Modification of supports, particularly, has proven effective and simple. For instance, Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely because pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersed and stabilized PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent work includes the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated beta (Si-beta), and Pt species are highly dispersed due to strong interaction with Sn(IV) sites. These catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst, for instance, exhibited the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The addition of In also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by tuning the acid-base property and enhancing the interaction between Pt and Sn.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, forming alloys to improve stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, improving active species dispersion and modifying host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing platinum requirements while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved performance. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite reconstruction has shown promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation addresses the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation faced by traditional platinum-tin alloy catalysts supported on alumina. The new catalyst preserves the atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and its benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, this catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieved near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that optimizing these factors can address fabrication challenges and improve performance in industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design shows high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by Dzwigaj's method and calcination, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, illustrating the catalyst's optimized performance and addressing challenges in design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a ZnPt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, facilitated by the interaction between Pt and Zn, contribute to its remarkable stability. This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, Pt alloys with rare-earth elements are difficult to form due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts show significant enhancement in catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite, which retained 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction under harsh operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the energy requirement for dehydrogenation. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, activated by metal oxides, may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, potentially enabling the process at 350°C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent Pt migration. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoating via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 offers enhanced stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent BO bonds and Si modifying Pt selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and constructing well-defined surface metal species. The stabilization effect of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts are notable achievements. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, and adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, significantly improves stability by stabilizing PtSn clusters. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation, exhibits high dispersion of Pt species and excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 and >99% selectivity at 550 C. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during four cycles at 550 C. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, and others) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, which are critical for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and the maximum level of surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds, which significantly boosts PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene without hydrogen dilution. The catalyst's stability and selectivity are attributed to the preservation of atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of a tin oxide phase. This addresses the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation, enhancing process efficiency by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling metal particle size and composition. Larger particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts increase specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and reduce carbon deposition, improving stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, which exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Prepared using Dzwigaj's method, the catalyst features ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, which are highly efficient for catalyzing the reaction. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst showed propane conversion of 72% with 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. Additionally, the higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage on PtCu/Al2O3 suppresses methane formation, improving propylene selectivity. The primary enhancement is attributed to the unique PtCu bimetallic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and broadens the scope for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which are fabricated to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters, enhancing the catalyst's stability and regenerability in consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The high electron density of the GaPt alloy boosts product desorption, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, with the catalyst's activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, which enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), significantly outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts. Under harsh operating conditions, Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. These advancements open up new opportunities for catalytic applications, particularly in PDH, by providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, reducing the overall energy requirement. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, as supports, enable high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, a zeolite-supported Pt catalyst, demonstrates outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to its high dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ over Al3+, leading to weaker Brnsted sites. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, activated by metal oxide, shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, potentially revolutionizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy enhances geometric and electronic promotion effects, crucial for stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against these issues. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies, as exemplified by the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, the synthesis of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and the stabilization of bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support, address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al. and Ma et al., significantly improves stability by stabilizing PtSn clusters and enhancing electronic interactions. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts through an improved post-synthesis strategy showcases excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy enhances the interaction between Pt and Sn, tunes acid-base properties, and positively impacts propane dehydrogenation catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on introducing promoters to Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving dispersion and electronic properties of Pt atoms. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see performance enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving dispersion and catalytic stability. PtGa and Pt with REEs have been implemented in production, while Zn and other metals offer economic alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) to improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure have also shown promise. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimization needs. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure exploration offers more stable active sites, as demonstrated by the superior PDH performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts with hydrotalcite reconstruction.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective catalysts that can operate at thermodynamic limits. A new silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles catalyst has been reported to operate at thermodynamically limited conversion levels with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. This catalyst preserves the atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene under reaction conditions. The catalyst can be partially regenerated by oxidation using 1% O2 as a mild oxidant at 500C followed by reduction at 600C, retaining 97% of the initial activity and >99% of the initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by supporting cobalt on dealuminated Beta and calcining at high temperatures, showed propane conversion of 72% with 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production. This unique bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement upon copper addition.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, making this catalyst more Zn-rich and Pt-lean than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, thus breaking traditional understanding and paving the way for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, addressing fabrication challenges. The stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts are enhanced by high Al3+penta site content, preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, with their high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically difficult due to their low chemical potential. The mesoporous zeolite, with its unique surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enables the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite, which retained 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction under harsh operating conditions. This approach opens new opportunities for catalytic applications and addresses the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the energy requirement for dehydrogenation. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its development for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ results in weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, hindering C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects on stability. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with the PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reducing coke formation and increasing selectivity to olefins. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and employing single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as incorporating pentacoordinate Al3+ and Ga3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, improving stability and electronic interactions. For instance, a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst showed high activity and selectivity due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhanced the stability of Pt catalysts. The importance of support modification was also seen in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, resulted in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during cycles. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters enhance interaction between Pt and Sn, tune acid-base properties, and improve catalytic performance. Specifically, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by inhibiting deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, enhances stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding Pt-M-support relationships, necessitating efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures provide stable, accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite reconstruction improves 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, unlike traditional alumina-supported catalysts. Notably, this catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, demonstrating its efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, indicating that controlling particle size and composition can improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small Co particles confined in silanols are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosting propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and increasing the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage. This unique PtCu bimetallic interaction suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, while also suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    