Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabrication involves varying Al3+penta site levels to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, with high site content preventing agglomeration during cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost product desorption, resulting in high propene formation rates. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto platinum to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (Quote 4). Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition (Quote 8), the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites show significantly enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (Quote 6). Under harsh operating conditions, these intermetallic nanoparticles retain high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, maintaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction (Quote 16). This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, offering a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its industrial development. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3, MgAl2O4 spinel, and CeO2 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats through atomic layer deposition prevent Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and modifying selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and employing single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the synthesis method for uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles contributes to performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH, possibly due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated beta (Si-beta), and Pt species are highly dispersed due to strong interactions between Pt and Sn(IV) sites. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to the inhibition of coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and the maximum level of surface Pt species. This strategy promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and leads to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability and suppressing side reactions. Metal oxide-based catalysts, with added metal oxides, enhance dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation by maintaining a unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster through strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets. This approach minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures could provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. Unlike traditional catalysts that require hydrogen dilution to prevent carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation, this new catalyst preserves atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and tin oxide phase formation. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity while reducing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling catalyst composition and particle size to optimize stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with CoOx species easily reducible to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, after prereduction, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co supports its long-term utility in ecofriendly and advanced catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This diminishes coke formation, suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, and improves propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional dehydrogenation stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites created by framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost product desorption and propene selectivity due to their high electron density. This strategy enhances catalyst regeneration stability, as evidenced by unchanged activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). This preparation strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for decades. However, Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. The introduction of Sn forms an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, enhancing catalytic performance through facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe coke formation and deactivation within a day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation instead of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts can guide the rational design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around the nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. This strategy results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction, and encapsulating Pt in materials like chabazite or coating with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 offers stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering and reducing coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species, and stabilizing metals through zeolite structure transformations. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, which is particularly effective. For PDH, PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts with high activity, selectivity, and stability were developed due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also noted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were prepared using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, resulted in excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals as promoters (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. In promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizes metallic Pt particles, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. These advancements, including the use of metals like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, address challenges by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from alloying with promoters to ameliorate active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been studied for stability enhancement through the formation of oxide compounds, which modify the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites, improving catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interaction with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing platinum usage without compromising activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further efficient methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by preventing a decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen addition, showing near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. These particles are highly efficient for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles are the active sites for PDH, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This development addresses challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing catalytic stability and performance. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons and methane. This unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, with their high electron density boosting product desorption and resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances the catalyst's regeneration stability, maintaining activity after four consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by their low chemical potential. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quotes 1, 4). These catalysts exhibit remarkable enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quotes 6, 14, 16). Under harsh operating conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite showed high initial propane conversion and underwent extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction. This advancement addresses the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy savings by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. This approach has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, with higher conversion rates and selectivity than conventional Pt-based catalysts on refractory oxide supports. The role of surface oxygen species and the redox property of the metal center in achieving dehydrogenation at lower temperatures is a promising direction for future research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites. This design results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be encapsulated in materials like MgAl2O4 spinel and highly siliceous chabazite, or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, using hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture and anchor active metals, and transforming zeolite structures to stabilize metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. For instance, the stabilization of PtSn clusters by strong metal-support interactions in PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts and the addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites to disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga, have shown significant improvements in stability. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, has been developed. This strategy incorporates Sn species into the framework of dealuminated beta (Si-beta), and highly disperses Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong interactions between Pt and Sn(IV) sites. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to the inhibition of coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction for Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, addressing fabrication and performance optimization. Promoters, like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and dispersion of Pt atoms. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, benefit from the addition of another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, crucial for industrial applications, by utilizing h-BN nanosheets' high surface area and edge characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 enhances dispersion. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost PDH performance. The goal is to obtain highly dispersed catalysts. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH performance. Hydrotalcite reconstruction positively impacts microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's effectiveness is achieved by preserving the atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, and through the benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support, which prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of the interaction between Pt and Sn during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts catalytic activity, while decreasing particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) exhibits 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined small metallic Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, impacting performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This unique bimetallic interaction also suppresses methane formation, improving overall catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts with varying Zn/Pt ratios. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. This stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports, with stability and regenerability dependent on Al3+penta site content. High Al3+penta site levels prevent Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density enhancing product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The silanol nests increase the chemical potential of rare-earth elements, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt and form alloys. This preparation strategy, when applied to late transition metals, results in Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial PDH process, which has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts for decades, faces challenges due to coke deposition on the Pt surface, leading to deactivation and loss of selectivity. The introduction of Sn in the alloy dilutes the Pt surface and breaks up coke-generating ensembles. Using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a support significantly enhances the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes [2][3][4][5][6][7]. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to develop selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms provide a platform for designing efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes [134][135][136][137]. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes [139][140][141][142][143][144][145][146][147][148][149][150][151]. Research directions include exploring the role of surface oxygen species and redox properties in achieving dehydrogenation at lower temperatures [166][167][168][169][170][171][172].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, hindering C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is effective and simple. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy created highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn interactions, resulted in excellent catalytic performance and stability, with high propene formation rates and selectivity at high temperatures. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, and others) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, have been studied for stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, improving active species dispersion and modifying host metal oxide sites. Noble metal addition enhances catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing platinum usage without compromising activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts for superior PDH performance. These advancements aim to address challenges in catalyst design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The atomic mixing of Pt and Sn is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent findings suggest that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, indicating effective strategies for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined small Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH suggest long-term utility for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. Optimizing the Cu loading to 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of this enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with strong carbon resistance due to the interaction between Pt and Zn. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabrication involves varying Al3+penta site levels to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, with high site content preventing agglomeration during cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, enhancing product desorption and resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quotes 1, 4). The resultant bimetallic nanoparticles, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, show remarkable enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quotes 6, 14, 16). Under harsh operating conditions, these catalysts retain significant propane conversion even after extended periods of reaction, addressing the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to create selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Gaps between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies persist, highlighting the need for further research and development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a novel catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes, involving the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This design synergizes geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in PtGaCaPb/SiO2. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding and coke precursor formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies and in situ characterization. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These advancements improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization. Strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as in PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2, has proven effective. For instance, the stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Al3+ and Ga3+ ions in supports enhances electronic interactions and stability. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits high activity and selectivity in PDH. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn interactions, result in excellent catalytic performance and stability, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters also enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties to optimize performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and stabilizing active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, improving Pt atom dispersion for stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are also improved by forming oxide compounds, enhancing dispersion and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding Pt-M-support relationships, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite reconstruction enhances 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation addresses challenges in catalyst design by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and through the benign interaction with silica support, preventing Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction, featuring atomically mixed precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, respectively. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%) achieved a propane conversion rate of 72% and a propylene selectivity of around 92%. The confined small metallic Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This development offers inspiration for the design of low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, leveraging the earth abundance of Co for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, containing 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (about 46%) and remarkable stability over 65 h at 525 C without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, due to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensures admirable PDH stability. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, boasting high electron density that boosts product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, Pt alloy formation with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation. ODH combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the overall energy demand. This lower temperature requirement of ODH compared to non-ODH and cracking is encouraging for industrial application. However, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights about components of the active sites of CH activation can provide a platform for rational design of new efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports to achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites has been demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst that exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The catalyst's high Pt dispersion on zeolite through ion-exchange and the choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation led to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and resulting in higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite advancements, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around the nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoating through atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on modifying supports, including the use of nanopore-encaged metals and wet-chemistry. Modification of supports, such as in PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3, with its high activity and selectivity in PDH, benefits from strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, exhibits excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals, when added as promoters, enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, have been studied for stability enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, which modifies the coordination and electronic state of host sites, improving dispersion and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation due to the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets. This design addresses challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges. Hierarchical structures are explored for more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction showing promise in superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. Unlike traditional catalysts that require hydrogen dilution and excess tin, the new catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, this catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, respectively. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve the stability and performance of supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. These particles are highly efficient for catalyzing propane dehydrogenation to propylene, showing a propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of around 92%. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This development provides inspiration for designing low-cost, ecofriendly, and advanced catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly improves propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppresses coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, enhance the dispersion of Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content significantly boosts stability and regenerability, preventing agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses fabrication challenges by enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides makes Pt alloy formation difficult, but a novel approach using mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests allows rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which shows high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods of reaction. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH and cracking, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ results in weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent developments suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, activated in oxygen, may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation, enhancing CO bond formation, and removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing deactivation due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: double decorating PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong interaction to prevent migration. Pt can be loaded into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and encapsulated in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite to prevent migration. Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking; the non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored size and phase, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors to construct well-defined surface species. These strategies, as evidenced by the synthesis of Pt-based catalysts with controlled particle size [2], the preparation of bimetallic nanoparticles [8], the stabilization of Pt through strong bonds [5], the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts [6], the maintenance of porous texture and anchoring of active metals [7], the preparation of uniform bimetal nanoparticles [8], the use of single-site metal precursors [9], and the stabilization of metals by the ETS-2 support [12], address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include strategies like the nanopore-encaged metal method, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters and improves stability, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. The introduction of In promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilized metallic Pt particles, and led to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. These advancements suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition, enhancing electronic properties and Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by forming oxide compounds, enhancing dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. Appropriate metal oxides or noble metals significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, demonstrates high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications by optimizing performance with reduced platinum content.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. The aim is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite reconstruction has shown promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity, without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining >99% of initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies have shown that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that optimizing particle size and composition addresses fabrication challenges and improves performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, which exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane to propylene conversion. This catalyst features ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which are highly efficient for the reaction. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles, the active sites for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, after prereduction, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles are confirmed as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, optimizing catalytic stability for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts stem from the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production. This unique bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The catalyst's stable active species and strong carbon resistance, due to the interaction between Pt and Zn, contribute to its remarkable stability in propane dehydrogenation to propylene (PDH). This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which are fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels. High Al3+penta site content in the Al2O3 structure significantly enhances the stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts by preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides, which hinders alloy formation through traditional hydrogen reduction methods. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in carbon monoxide oxidation. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has long used PtSn catalysts on porous alumina, but these face issues of rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. Introducing Sn to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles mitigates this by diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have developed a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as an advanced catalyst support, boosting catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh conditions. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive option for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, as well as the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites has been demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, stabilized by metal oxides, may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with the potential to achieve dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation and carbidic phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 for strong interaction. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds, reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies for improved stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These methods enhance structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on modification of supports, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, particularly by incorporating pentacoordinate ions, has proven effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include the creation of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, result in excellent catalytic performance for PDH. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during regeneration cycles. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, for instance, exhibit the best performance with higher propylene selectivity and stability due to the stabilization of metallic Pt particles and promotion of surface Pt oxides reduction. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the introduction of promoters. These promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, effectively regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, recognized for their high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from alloying with promoters to ameliorate active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see improvements through the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. The addition of noble metals or metal oxides significantly boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency, demonstrating an approach to optimizing catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved Pt dispersion and electron transfer, modified supports (ZnO, La2O3, TiO2) for better performance, and single atom sites of Pt for superior PDH reactions. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the superior PDH performance of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts with reconstructed hydrotalcite-like compounds.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This is achieved by preserving atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide phase formation. The catalyst avoids hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. It exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, respectively. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which are highly efficient for direct dehydrogenation of propane to propylene. These particles, when reduced under optimal conditions, achieve propane conversion of 72% with 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, highlighting the importance of particle size and confinement for enhanced catalytic stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst's improved anti-coking ability and selectivity are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production. This enhancement is primarily due to the unique PtCu bimetallic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or auxiliary hydrogen. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating two active centers: Lewis acidic sites by framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. This composition breaks traditional understanding about PtZn catalysts, offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying levels of Al3+penta sites, effectively disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. A high content of Al3+penta sites prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by the low chemical potential of their oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). These catalysts, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, they exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts that rapidly deactivate due to coke formation. This advancement in catalyst design and fabrication provides a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH and cracking, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including the proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. New materials, such as porous copper-aluminum framework materials, show promise for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, potentially revolutionizing non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and utilizing carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as Pt in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe bonds in Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2, respectively, prevent Pt sintering. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability and selectivity, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds and reducing coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored size and phase, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture while anchoring active metals. The synthesis approach can tailor bimetallic nanoparticles (Quote 3) and stabilize Pt through strong bonds (Quote 5). Zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts have been reported for high stability (Quote 6). The synthesis procedure can maintain porous texture and anchor active Pt-based metals (Quote 7). Uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles have been prepared (Quote 8), and single-site metal precursors construct well-defined surface metal species (Quote 9). The transformation of zeolite structures stabilizes metals (Quote 10), and the formation of Sn single-site in frameworks has been achieved (Quote 11). The stabilization of highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support has been reported (Quote 12). These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, which is particularly effective. Examples like the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, with high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions, highlight the benefits. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability in PDH, possibly due to enhanced electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to the confinement effect and strong PtSn interactions. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, which are crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefits from these promoters, enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see stability improvements through oxide compound formation, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metal addition boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system exhibits high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding Pt-M-support relationships, necessitating efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure exploration provides stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction positively impacts 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, boosting PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains propane conversion rates, with TEM images showing well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that controlling particle size and composition can improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with CoOx species easily reducible to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined small Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, highlighting the importance of particle size and confinement in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional dehydrogenation stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction effect between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's remarkable reaction stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts depend on Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters during cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, with their high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances the catalyst's regeneration stability, maintaining activity after four consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements are addressed by using zeolites with silanol nests, enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial PDH process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition. Sn alleviates this by forming an alloy with Pt nanoparticles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite retain 8% conversion after 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, making them a stable and highly active option for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Insights into CH activation can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guide the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, with copper providing active sites and the role of surface oxide in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the electron density around single-atom-like Pt1 sites, leading to an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over 1 month. This addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. Such strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga3+-containing Mg(Al)O, has proven effective in stabilizing PtSn clusters and enhancing electronic interactions between metals. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, as demonstrated by the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation lead to the incorporation of Sn species into the framework and the dispersion of Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters. This results in excellent catalytic performance and stability, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and minimal changes in catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. In also promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizes metallic Pt particles, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, have been studied for their enhanced dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes performance by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed catalysts for better PDH performance, although challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, addressing challenges in catalyst design. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The preparation method, based on Dzwigaj's technique, followed by high-temperature calcination, yields a catalyst with small metallic Co particles as active sites. These particles, confined in silanols, are highly efficient for the PDH reaction, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates the potential for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst design for industrial applications, addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic performance are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production. This unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement upon copper addition.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The catalyst's stability is linked to the interaction between Pt and Zn, offering a new perspective on dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, enhancing product desorption. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active intermetallic compounds. This preparation strategy, involving co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors followed by heating under O2 and H2, results in Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity, particularly in the propane dehydrogenation reaction. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, offering a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions. This synergy allows ODH to occur at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive technology for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, as well as selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Recent reports suggest that copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with the potential to achieve dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as Pt in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and the use of CeO2 to trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state, prevent sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and selectivity. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces sintering and coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture to anchor active metals. The stabilization effect of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts are notable outcomes. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include strategies like the nanopore-encaged metal method, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification. Modification of supports, particularly, has proven effective and simple. For instance, the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst developed by Lu et al. for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) showed high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. demonstrated that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, further illustrates these advancements. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These developments address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy enhances interaction between Pt and Sn, tunes acid-base properties, and positively impacts catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, forming alloys to improve stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see stability enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and modifying host metal oxide sites. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interaction with h-BN nanosheet edges, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, demonstrating an optimized approach for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, particularly for Pt-based catalysts, involve bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance PDH performance. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored for more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction shows promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, avoiding issues with traditional supports. The benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring retained interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. This approach increases productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies suggest that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability in ethane dehydrogenation processes. Larger metal particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios increase specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition, thus improving stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The preparation method, based on Dzwigaj's technique, followed by high-temperature calcination, yields a catalyst that, after prereduction, achieves propane conversion of 72% with 92% propylene selectivity. The confined small Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. This development addresses challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, offering insights into performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity and yield. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This unique bimetallic interaction also suppresses methane formation, improving the anti-coking ability and overall catalytic stability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    