Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, breaking traditional understanding and offering new design avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, where high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts. These ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanoclusters, encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites, act as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, typically hindered by the low chemical potential of their oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). These catalysts show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite, which retained 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operation temperatures than non-ODH methods. ODH's energy efficiency makes it attractive for industrial applications, but commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, with high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Understanding CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts aids in the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing catalyst deactivation due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent Pt migration and sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. Specific examples, such as stabilizing Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, using zeolites for single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability, and stabilizing highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support, address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, which showed high activity, selectivity, and stability. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, possibly due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation led to the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, with Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, resulting in excellent catalytic performance and stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve the addition of promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, featuring moderate coke deposition and a high concentration of surface Pt species, which enhances the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizes metallic Pt particles for improved propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and stabilizing active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see enhanced performance through the introduction of additional metal oxides, which improve dispersion and stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, making it suitable for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides stable, accessible active sites, significantly boosting PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation seen in traditional platinum-tin alloy catalysts. The new catalysts avoid the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalysts preserve atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. The benign interaction with the silica support ensures high metal dispersion and small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticle sizes, contributing to the catalyst's performance and stability. Regeneration studies show that the catalyst can be partially restored, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts. Increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio in catalysts like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O boosts specific activity, reduces carbon deposition, and optimizes performance, addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, this catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Particle size and confinement are critical, as bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles can lead to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. The CoSiBeta catalyst effectively addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving a high propylene yield and exceptional stability in dehydrogenation processes. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This interaction between Pt and Zn breaks traditional understanding and offers new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, enhance stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites. Their high electron density enhances propene selectivity and formation rate. Zeolite confinement boosts regeneration stability, maintaining activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE incorporation, conducted by co-impregnation and heating under O2 and H2, results in the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles, significantly enhancing catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability. Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which experience severe coke formation and deactivation within one day under harsh operating conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, enabling dehydrogenation at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation can guide the design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (Quote [134]). Zeolites as supports achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity minimizing side reactions (Quotes [135], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). Recent reports suggest a porous copper-aluminum framework material may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quotes [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. NiAu surfaces make C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation and enhance CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and Al2O3 overcoating, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification, notably effective in improving Pt-based catalysts. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, with γ-Al2O3 nanosheets containing pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, exhibit high stability in PDH due to strong metal-support interactions. Ga addition to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH, possibly by strengthening electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. An improved post-synthesis strategy for developing highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts includes dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximized surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. The promoters' impacts on redox properties, surface composition, and lattice oxygen capacity determine overall stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the addition of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, as highlighted by the effectiveness of promoters in improving catalytic behaviors and the introduction of metal oxides in modifying coordination and electronic states.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O, enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, such as those provided by hydrotalcite reconstruction, offer more stable and accessible active sites, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high stability and selectivity to propylene. Its design preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, it operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst demonstrated near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that optimizing the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts boosts stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger metal particles and a higher Sn/Pt ratio enhance specific activity and reduce carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. CoOx species easily reduce to active Co particles, crucial for the PDH reaction, with particle size impacting performance. Bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, underscoring the importance of ultrasmall particle size for optimized performance. Co's earth abundance supports long-term catalyst utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity and yield significantly. The PtCu bimetallic interaction enhances anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and increasing the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, notably the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, using more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Varying Al3+penta site levels disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, with high site content preventing agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability in cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, typically hindered by the low chemical potential of their oxides. Mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under O2 and H2 at high temperatures, show a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. This is a significant improvement over conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which experience severe coke formation and deactivation within one day under harsh operating conditions. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on the degallated zeolite enhance PDH catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operation temperatures and energy efficiency compared to non-ODH processes. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, with high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, achieves outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, with Fe3+ minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Recent developments suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, with copper providing active sites and the role of surface oxide species in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, and Ca enriches electron density, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be loaded into MgAlOx hydrotalcite layers and enclosed in MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and performance. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, as evidenced by the stabilization of Pt through strong bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification techniques. Modification of γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, as demonstrated by Lu et al., stabilizes PtSn clusters. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation, results in highly stable catalysts. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the dealuminated beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters. These catalysts exhibit excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity, while strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic introduction of various metals as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters, notably In, improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts exhibit superior performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have also been studied. Introducing another metal oxide improves active species dispersion and catalytic stability by modifying host metal oxide sites. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has enhanced propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure, have shown improved performance. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, crucial for superior PDH performance. These strategies aim to address fabrication challenges and optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, achieved by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of a tin oxide phase. Notably, the catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst has demonstrated near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. Additionally, regeneration studies showed that the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the control of particle size and composition in supported metal catalysts, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, to enhance stability and performance in dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, offering effective strategies for catalyst design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. CoOx species within the zeolite reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for PDH. Small confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH are promising for long-term utility in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. This improves anti-coking ability, reducing coke formation and suppressing lighter hydrocarbon cracking, attributed to unique PtCu bimetallic interaction.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, particularly the optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 h at 525 C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, offers a new approach to stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation by using Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, improving stability and regenerability, as demonstrated in propane dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with the catalyst retaining unchanged activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe coke formation and deactivation, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolites show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions (Quote [2]). This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive industrial technology (Quote [5]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms are crucial for the rational design of efficient catalysts. Notably, the use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity (Quote [140], [143]). These strategies address the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This design synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, with Pb blocking three-fold Pt3 sites and Ca enriching single-atom-like Pt1 sites. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on surfaces, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 and additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability, prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via a covalent BO bond enhancing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions like PtOCe bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering and maintain high stability, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies address fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification, which is effective and simple. PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt catalysts with Ga addition showed improved stability in PDH due to strong metal-support interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibit high stability and catalytic performance for PDH. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta demonstrate excellent propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Notably, In-promotion stabilizes Pt particles, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability by reducing surface Pt oxides, making it the best performer.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. This strategy suppresses side reactions, inhibits coke deposition, and stabilizes active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition to adjust electronic properties and enhance stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have their catalytic stability improved by forming oxide compounds that modify the coordination and electronic state of host sites, enhancing overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design, characterized by strong bonding between copper and edge BO defects, minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts such as PtIn and PtGa, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O oxides, enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 and PtCu alloys have shown increased propane conversion and propene selectivity. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides more stable and accessible active sites, with 3D oxide nanosheet arrays showing superior PDH performance due to hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. Synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. This interaction is preserved, avoiding alloy segregation and tin oxide phase formation. The catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains >39% propane conversion over 120 minutes, outperforming other tested catalysts. TEM images confirm the well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles with an average diameter of 1.6 ± 0.67 nm. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This innovation achieves high propane conversion (72%) and propylene selectivity (92%), with CoOx species readily reducible to active metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas. Small confined Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co supports long-term utility and ecofriendly design, making CoSiBeta a promising catalyst for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, which optimizes performance and stability. An optimal 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced anti-coking ability and catalytic performance are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, achieving high propylene yield and exceptional stability over extended periods without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This breakthrough in dehydrogenation catalyst design has significant implications for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, which boosts product desorption. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, as demonstrated by the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, offering a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a strategy to lower energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Insights into CH activation mechanisms provide a platform for rational catalyst design. Notably, the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions. The use of zeolites as supports facilitates high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, enhancing catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, pointing to a promising direction for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and carbidic phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in design and performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as Pt in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by anchoring Pt and reducing coke formation. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and notably, support modification. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst and Ma et al.'s addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, significantly improves stability by stabilizing metal clusters through strong interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation, resulting in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters. This leads to excellent catalytic performance and stability in PDH processes, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) to improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In boosts initial activity and stability by promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability with moderate coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have their stability enhanced through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications, as evidenced by the implementation of PtGa catalyst systems in production plants.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters, enhancing catalytic stability and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation. This design minimizes platinum usage, maximizes activity, and optimizes performance for industrial applications through the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster and the high surface area of h-BN nanosheets with amino group edges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing propene selectivity. Modifying Al2O3 supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Exploring hierarchical structures provides more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst, synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensures atomic mixing is preserved during catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, it operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, even under harsh conditions. Additionally, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications by achieving stable and selective catalytic performance at thermodynamic limits.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies demonstrate that optimizing metal particle size and composition, particularly the Sn/Pt ratio, enhances the catalytic stability of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts in dehydrogenation processes. This approach boosts specific activity and minimizes carbon deposition, suggesting that precise control over particle size and composition can address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, small metallic Co particles in silanols act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the use of Cu to boost the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieves 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield, thanks to the PtCu bimetallic interaction that inhibits propylene adsorption, raises the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and curbs coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, while the zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with silanol nests, enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods. This addresses the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. This energy intensification advantage motivates ODH's development for industrial use, but commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Notably, zeolite-supported Pt catalysts, such as Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, exhibit outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker acidity from Fe3+ cations, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by mitigating coking and graphene island growth, crucial for supported metal catalysts in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. This strategy, exemplified by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, blocks three-fold Pt3 sites with Pb and enriches electron density around nanoparticles with Ca, creating a stable Pt1 site. The catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, with negligible deactivation over extended periods, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on synthesis methods that control metal particle size, tailor bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulate metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintain porous texture, and use single-site metal precursors. For instance, synthesis parameters influence the size of Pt-based catalysts, and tailored bimetallic nanoparticles exhibit improved stability. Strong PtOCe bonds contribute to stabilization, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts show high stability. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, as seen in PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2 catalysts, has proven effective, with pentacoordinate Al3+ and Ga3+ ions stabilizing PtSn clusters. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits high stability and selectivity in PDH due to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites in the Si-beta framework. This strategy inhibits coke formation and sintering, maintaining catalytic activity over multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving the dispersion and stability of Pt-based catalysts. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, with its unique geometry maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects. This design minimizes platinum usage, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, enhanced by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, such as ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, also significantly improves performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown enhanced propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, particularly hydrotalcite reconstruction, provide more stable and accessible active sites, leading to superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. The catalyst's design preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide phase formation. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in catalyst design, such as controlling particle size and composition in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, enhance stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, which shows high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared via Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the catalyst demonstrates 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly enhances anti-coking ability and catalytic performance by inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production. This enhancement is attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, showcasing the effectiveness of bimetallic interactions in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. Notably, the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with Pt and Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves high propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 hours in propane dehydrogenation without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This catalyst, with a higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabricating supports with varying Al3+penta site levels disperses Pt-Sn2 clusters, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in zeolites act as active sites, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. Zeolite restriction boosts regeneration stability, with the catalyst sustaining activity over four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing zeolites with silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite significantly improve PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as shown in Fig. 2. Under harsh conditions, these nanoparticles show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days, demonstrating a striking enhancement in all aspects of the PDH catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operating temperatures than non-ODH methods. This energy-efficient approach motivates the development of ODH for industrial use, but requires innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and carbidic phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation, and atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and performance. Key methods include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, as evidenced by the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification. PtSn clusters on Al2O3 nanosheets and the addition of Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites exemplify this, improving stability through enhanced metal-support interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibits high catalytic performance and stability in PDH due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions within the Si-beta framework. This catalyst achieves a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 at 550 C with >99% selectivity, and maintains activity during four cycles at 550 C, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, and others) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, critical for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which enhance the dispersion of Pt atoms. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see improved dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide. These advancements optimize performance and address fabrication challenges in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance PDH performance. These strategies aim for highly dispersed Pt catalysts. Challenges remain in understanding Pt-M-support relationships, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored for more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene without hydrogen dilution. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, the catalyst ensures atomic mixing during reduction and operation. Its benign interaction with silica prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation. Demonstrating partial regeneration capabilities, the catalyst maintains 97% initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. Under reaction conditions, it achieves >66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene, operating efficiently without hydrogen addition.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation show that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing particle size and increasing Sn/Pt ratio cuts carbon deposition. These insights emphasize the significance of controlling particle size and composition for improved stability and performance, tackling fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity at 0.5 wt% Co loading. Small confined Co particles are identified as active sites, offering inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly PDH catalysts, leveraging Co's earth abundance for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Optimizing Cu loading to 0.5 wt% significantly improves propylene selectivity and yield. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu suppresses propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which inhibits coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This bimetallic interaction also suppresses methane formation, enhancing the catalyst's anti-coking ability and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the ZnPt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving 46% propylene yield and 65 hours of stability at high temperatures. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt, challenges traditional understanding and offers new directions for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, thus optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. This novel approach overcomes the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. The mesoporous zeolites enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing operations at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes. This energy-efficient approach motivates its development for industrial use, but requires innovative catalyst and process design to synergize dehydrogenation with hydrogen combustion and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, stabilized by metal oxides, may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation than conventional Pt-based catalysts, potentially enabling propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, creating the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent Pt migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, and nonmetals B and Si anchor PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation, as predicted by computational screening for Si's role in modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. Examples include the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts. These strategies enhance structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to enhanced electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulting in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with good stability due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, resulting in higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. This approach regulates active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys with Pt to improve active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, enhance stability through oxide compound formation, modifying coordination and electronic states for improved dispersion. Noble metal introduction boosts catalytic performance, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modifications using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides are explored to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being investigated to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design and fabrication by achieving near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene without the efficiency-lowering hydrogen addition.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve controlling particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio improves ethane dehydrogenation activity and decreases carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst features ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This design addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization, offering inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Cu loading on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An ideal 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieves 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. The Pt-Cu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which prevents coke formation and cracking towards lighter hydrocarbons, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, enhancing stability and regenerability. The high content of Al3+penta sites prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites with high electron density, enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show significantly enhanced PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, offering energy efficiency and lower operating temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have been used as supports to achieve high metal dispersion, resulting in outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [140], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143], [144]). Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with the potential for operation at lower temperatures (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation, which is crucial for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst with exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, showing minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe in Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2, respectively, prevent sintering. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si modifies the selectivity of Pt catalysts by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies for enhanced stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions like PtOCe bonds (Quote 5), encapsulating metals in zeolites for high stability (Quote 6), maintaining porous texture, and using single-site precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on strengthening metal-support interactions. Modification of supports, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, as shown by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH. Ma et al. demonstrated that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy, achieving excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the introduction of promoters like In into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on the strategic use of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve central active components and inhibit deactivation. These promoters suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds in Pt-based catalysts, which are effective for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide or noble metal, enhancing stability and performance by improving active species dispersion and modifying host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has significantly advanced propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, optimizes catalytic activity while minimizing platinum usage, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for Pt-based catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) that improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O has also shown effectiveness. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have improved PDH performance. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts, addressing challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation processes. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, addressing fabrication challenges. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. It exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple cycles. This approach optimizes performance by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion associated with hydrogen dilution.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation show that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, highlighting the significance of controlling particle size and composition for improved stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, thereby addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst, prepared through high-temperature calcination and prereduction, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. CoOx species within the zeolite reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. The earth abundance of Co supports its long-term utility in ecofriendly and advanced catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the use of Cu to boost the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading enhances propylene selectivity and yield. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which reduces coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This also suppresses methane formation, improving propylene selectivity, thereby addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles that resist carbon deposition. This design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering the energy requirement for alkane conversion (Quote [2]). This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes (Quote [5]), motivating its development for industrial applications (Quote [6]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (Quote [13]). The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [16]). The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [17]). Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, activated by metal oxides, may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation (Quote [166]), potentially enabling the process at lower temperatures (Quote [168]). The role of surface oxygen species in catalysis is evident, with the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism possibly involved (Quote [170]). This should constitute the future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth and carbidic phase formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) also destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom prevention on the surface.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, showing minimal deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 and additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds and Si's electronic and geometric modifications enhance selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling Pt-based catalysts' metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles' size and phase, stabilizing Pt through strong bonds with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites for high stability, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species, and stabilizing Sn single-sites and bimetallic PtZn sites. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the effectiveness of support modification. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts by Lu et al. exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by an improved post-synthesis strategy, shows excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals further optimize performance by enhancing the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst demonstrated the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition to improve Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, see stability enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states for better performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use. The unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, minimizes platinum usage while optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other materials significantly boosts catalyst performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys have been shown to increase PDH efficiency. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable, accessible active sites, enhancing PDH performance. Hydrotalcite reconstruction positively impacts the microstructure of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH outcomes.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These nanoparticles operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide phase formation, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion and high selectivity to propylene, demonstrating excellent stability and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight advancements in enhancing catalytic stability by controlling particle size and composition. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which shows high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Co's earth abundance suggests long-term utility, making it a promising, low-cost, ecofriendly catalyst for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the use of Cu to boost the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieves 90.8% propylene selectivity and a 36.5% yield. The Cu-Pt interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppresses coke formation, and reduces methane production, enhancing overall performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, containing 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring a stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst is more Zn-rich and Pt-sparse than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, where high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters enhance propene selectivity and formation rate due to their high electron density, facilitating product desorption. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of fabricating Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, which is typically difficult due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts outperform conventional PtSn catalysts, showing significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by retaining 8% propane conversion after 30 days of reaction under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operating temperatures compared to non-ODH processes. This energy-efficient approach motivates the development of ODH for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom accumulation prevention.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters and modifying selectivity through electronic and geometric changes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis methods that control metal particle size, tailor bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize metal sites through strong bonds, encapsulate metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintain porous texture, and use single-site metal precursors. These advancements, such as the synthesis of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts and the preparation of uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles, improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, has shown excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability of dehydrogenation and regeneration with almost unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. In particular, In-promoted catalysts have shown the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. In enhances the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizes metallic Pt particles, improving propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters. Promoters, such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, are added to Pt-based catalysts to form alloys or intermetallic compounds, which suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve Pt atom dispersion. PtGa catalyst systems, like the FCDh technique, and Pt-based catalysts with In and Zn as promoters have been successfully implemented. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides also enhance the performance of metal oxide-based catalysts (CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, CrOx-based) by improving active species dispersion and modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites, thereby enhancing catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster system, optimizing direct dehydrogenation processes by minimizing platinum usage and maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, ensures high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) to improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with other oxides is also crucial. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost PDH performance. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in improving PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further efficient methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, addressing challenges in catalyst design. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. This approach results in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles, and avoids the formation of a tin oxide phase, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight controlling particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, as a strategy to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with CoOx species easily reducing to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst showed 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small confined Co particles are proven to be active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH suggest long-term utility for this ecofriendly and advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, enhancing catalytic performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    