Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and opens new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. The challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is addressed by using zeolites with silanol nests, enabling the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. When applied to late transition metals, this strategy produces Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity, such as the PtCo alloy for the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has traditionally used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. Sn introduction alleviates these issues by diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating Pt ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe coke formation and deactivation within a day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts' preparation involves co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under O2 and H2 at high temperatures. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) offer energy-efficient conversion of alkanes to alkenes, as the exothermic oxidation of hydrogen offsets the energy-intensive endothermic dehydrogenation process (quotes [2], [3], [4]). This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH methods, making it a promising technology (quotes [5], [6]). However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, as well as selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (quote [7]). The use of zeolites as supports for metal catalysts, such as Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion and weaker acidity that minimizes side reactions (quotes [134], [135], [136], [137], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144]). Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (quote [166]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a novel catalyst design that double-decorates PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering, as demonstrated by Moliner et al. and the use of atomic layer deposition. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability, similar to Sn. B and Si can prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering by anchoring the non-stoichiometric PtB cluster via a covalent BO bond, as summarized by Dadras et al. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture to anchor active metals. The stabilization effect of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts have been reported. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and incorporating pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters and improves stability, as demonstrated by Lu et al. in PDH. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. An improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, led to the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and highly dispersed Pt species in the form of ultra-small nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, result in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability of dehydrogenation and regeneration with almost unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters also tune acid-base properties, positively impacting propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best stability and propylene selectivity, with moderate coke deposition and stabilization of metallic Pt particles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which enhance stability by adjusting electronic properties and improving Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by forming oxide compounds, which enhance dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. Appropriate metal oxides or noble metals significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, particularly for Pt-based catalysts, involve bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved performance. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Hierarchical structures and porous catalysts are being explored for more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction has shown promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple cycles. This approach overcomes the need for hydrogen dilution, which limits process efficiency, and demonstrates near-thermodynamic conversion levels and high selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction under optimal conditions. The confined small Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. Co's earth abundance suggests long-term utility, making this catalyst a promising development for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced PDH catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, enhancing catalytic stability and performance for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, consisting of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (about 46%) and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or auxiliary hydrogen. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, making this catalyst more Zn-rich and Pt-sparse than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, thus breaking traditional understanding and paving the way for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for fabrication and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with their high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of low chemical potential in rare-earth element oxides, enabling stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, like PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina have been used industrially for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition. Sn introduction forms an alloy, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. A siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure boosts catalytic performance by providing facile diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation. The PtREE incorporation in mesoporous zeolite forms intermetallic compounds, enhancing catalytic performance. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the energy requirement for dehydrogenation. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy enhances geometric and electronic promotion effects, boosting stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3, MgAl2O4, and CeO2 to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to specific compound formations. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, and encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering. Hydrothermal synthesis maintains porous texture and anchors active metals, while uniform bimetal nanoparticles and well-defined surface metal species are prepared using single-site metal precursors. Transforming zeolite structures stabilizes metals, and single-site formation in frameworks improves performance. These strategies address catalyst design challenges, optimizing performance for industrial applications by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Specifically, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. In enhances the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and boosts propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters (Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, REEs) forming alloys to ameliorate active components. Metal oxide-based catalysts (CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, CrOx-based) are also studied, with oxide compound formation enhancing stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metal introduction boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing expensive platinum while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved PDH performance. The aim is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH outcomes. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-promoter-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being explored to provide stable and accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compounds in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. These catalysts preserve atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, avoiding the need for hydrogen dilution, which increases productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalysts exhibit near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. The catalysts can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Larger metal particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio increase specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while reducing carbon deposition, which addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles, which are the active sites for the PDH reaction. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. These findings offer inspiration for designing low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, enhancing catalytic stability and performance for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites created by framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, making this catalyst more Zn-rich and Pt-sparse than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, thus breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is difficult due to their low chemical potential. The zeolite's silanol nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also allows for the incorporation of a large amount of the second metal, such as in PtCo alloys, which exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial PDH process has traditionally used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of catalytic selectivity. Sn alleviates these problems by forming an alloy with Pt nanoparticles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites as supports achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest copper-aluminum framework materials may offer high performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around single-atom-like Pt1 sites. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be encapsulated in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and anchoring active metals. These methods improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches, with support modification being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also noted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include the creation of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation. This results in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, which are crucial for catalytic stability. The integrated impacts of these factors determine the overall stability of the catalysts. The In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance during stability tests, with a moderate level of coke deposition and the maximum level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized the metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, are improved by metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, forming alloys to inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are optimized by introducing another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure, have also been effective. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure exploration offers more stable, accessible active sites, enhancing PDH reaction performance. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction positively impacts the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH outcomes.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst is synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. This results in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. The synthesis process and the benign interaction with the silica support are key to the catalyst's performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to enhance stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles are proven to be efficient active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the strategic addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production. This unique bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the catalyst's improved stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 h at 525°C. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, linked to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensures admirable reaction stability. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying levels of Al3+penta sites, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. A high content of Al3+penta sites prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, which is typically difficult due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach utilizes a mesoporous zeolite with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resulting intermetallic compounds are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts show significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite, which retained 8% propane conversion even after 30 days of reaction under harsh operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the overall energy requirement. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ minimize side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Recent developments suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer improved performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and promotes CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against these issues. The PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond prevents sintering and reduces coke formation. Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These advancements improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization. Strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is effective and simple. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts by Lu et al. and Pt catalysts with Ga addition by Ma et al. showed improved stability in PDH due to strong metal-support interactions and enhanced electronic interactions. The post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, resulted in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and Sn species in the framework, leading to excellent catalytic performance and stability in PDH. The catalysts achieved a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 at 550 C and 3.1 mol g1Pt h1 at 600 C, with >99% propene selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Specifically, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts by introducing promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and stabilizing active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving dispersion and modifying the electronic state of host sites. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, aims to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures are being explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite-like compounds showing promise in microstructure and morphology enhancement for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the exact relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective catalysts that can operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution. A new catalyst, composed of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, has been developed to address fabrication challenges and optimize performance. This catalyst preserves the atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. It operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, indicating that controlling particle size and composition can improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. The confined small Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. This catalyst design offers inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH, addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, enhancing catalytic stability and performance for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced anti-coking ability and performance are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption, suppresses coke formation, and raises the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, thus reducing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn catalysts, challenges traditional design and opens new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite act as active sites, boosting product desorption for high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements are addressed by using zeolites with silanol nests, enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy results in Pt alloy catalysts with high catalytic activity and selectivity, such as the PtCo alloy for the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. Industrial PDH processes have used PtSn bimetallic catalysts for decades, but recent research focuses on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support. This zeolite boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, as per quotes [2], [3], [4], and [5]. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, as noted in [6]. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, as highlighted in [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms, as mentioned in [180], provide a platform for rational catalyst design. Recent strategies also involve using zeolites as supports for high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst in [139], [140], [141], and [142]. This catalyst exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, as explained in [143] and [144]. New research directions, such as copper-aluminum framework materials, as indicated in [166], [167], [168], [169], [170], [171], and [172], show promise for achieving dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation and enhance CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, and Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 coating via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds and reduced coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies: controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, using hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, employing single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications. [5] highlights the stabilization effect of Pt through strong bonds, while [6] reports on zeolite-confined Pt catalysts with high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is effective and simple. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts for PDH, developed by Lu et al., exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions stabilizing PtSn clusters. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH, possibly by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH were prepared using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. These catalysts show excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to enhance stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, improve stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, demonstrating an approach to optimize catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, particularly for Pt-based catalysts, involve bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure have also been effective. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction showing promise for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, without the need for hydrogen dilution. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene, exceeding 66% conversion and maintaining over 99% selectivity. The catalyst can also be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This new catalyst addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion associated with hydrogen dilution.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of precise catalyst design for optimized dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, which exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. The confined Co particles are active sites for PDH, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, impacting the catalyst's stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% increasing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This diminishes coke formation, suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, and improves propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of a ZnPt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, with a composition of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, due to the interaction between Pt and Zn, contribute to its reaction stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts are significantly influenced by Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring sinter-resistance and improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, boosting product desorption and achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. To address this, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, as well as the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites has been demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ led to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoating via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds and reducing coke formation. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and anchoring active metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications. For instance, the synthesis approach can tailor the size and phase of bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, and achieve the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks, demonstrating the effectiveness of these strategies in enhancing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, particularly, has proven effective and simple. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated Si-beta, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals further enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties and promoting catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through the introduction of promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see enhanced stability and dispersion of active species through the addition of another metal oxide. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance by modifying coordination and electronic states.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable catalytic efficiency improvements. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing expensive platinum while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction shows promise in improving microstructure and PDH performance, addressing challenges in catalyst design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst, synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene over 66% and maintains high selectivity, even under harsh conditions. Regeneration studies demonstrate partial recovery of activity and selectivity after PDH cycles. This approach addresses the challenges of traditional catalysts by avoiding the need for hydrogen dilution, which increases productivity and efficiency in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability and performance in direct dehydrogenation processes. Specifically, increasing the metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight strategies for optimizing catalyst design and fabrication to address industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The catalyst's preparation involves Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, with prereduction under optimal conditions yielding high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. This development addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization, offering inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, enhancing catalytic stability and performance for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability is attributed to inhibited propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and suppressing cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. Additionally, the higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage on PtCu/Al2O3 suppresses methane formation. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, features two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. Its stable active species and strong carbon resistance, attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensure admirable reaction stability. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing sinter-resistance and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests (1). These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (4). The resultant bimetallic nanoparticles are selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, showing improved stability and activity (6). The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (14). These catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction (21).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, offering energy efficiency advantages over non-ODH methods. ODH operates at lower temperatures, motivating its development for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to synergize the dehydrogenation and oxidation steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst exhibits outstanding stability due to high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ over Al3+, leading to weaker Brnsted sites and minimizing side reactions. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in PtGaCaPb/SiO2, an ultra-stable catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces, prevent Pt migration. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent BO bonds enhance sintering resistance and reduce coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These advancements improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, synthesis parameters influence metal particle size, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst, in particular, exhibited the best performance during stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by enhancing interaction between Pt and Sn and tuning acid-base properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, benefit from the addition of another metal oxide to improve active species dispersion and catalytic stability. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing performance. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity for propylene, addressing challenges in carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. Notably, this catalyst can operate without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase, further enhancing the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols, which exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of 92% after prereduction. The confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, enhancing catalytic stability and performance for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This strategy improves anti-coking ability and propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional dehydrogenation stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the content of Al3+penta sites, which prevent the agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters into larger Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites, with high electron density enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity in carbon monoxide oxidation. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene. Sn introduction forms an alloy with Pt, diluting the surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolite retain high initial propane conversion and undergo slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion over extended periods. The presence of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial propane dehydrogenation applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH and cracking, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated with the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, has shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ led to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy enhances geometric and electronic promotion effects, boosting stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry. Modification of supports, like using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, or adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizes PtSn clusters and enhances electronic interactions. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, incorporate Sn species into the framework and disperse Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters. These catalysts exhibit excellent PDH performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and maintain stability through strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, which are crucial for catalytic stability. Transition metals, alkaline metals, alkaline earth metals, and rare earth metals, when added as promoters, enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn and tune the acid-base property, positively impacting propane dehydrogenation performance. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which enhance stability by modifying electronic properties and dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see improved dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying host metal oxide sites. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides, and single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure have also shown promise. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, allowing operation without hydrogen dilution, which increases productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and high selectivity to propylene, demonstrating excellent stability under harsh conditions. Regeneration studies indicate partial regeneration is possible, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes can be achieved by controlling the particle size and composition. Specifically, increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of CoSiBeta, a supported metal catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, showing high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The catalyst is prepared by Dzwigaj's method, followed by high-temperature calcination, and prereduction under optimal conditions. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing Cu loading at 0.5 wt% to enhance propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with strong carbon resistance due to the interaction between Pt and Zn. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, fabricated with varying levels of Al3+penta sites, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles, crucial for stability and regenerability in consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, with their high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances the catalyst's regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit significant enhancements in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes leverage oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, reducing the overall energy requirement. ODH's lower temperature requirement compared to non-ODH and cracking is encouraging for industrial application, but commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst's high Pt dispersion on zeolite through ion-exchange and the choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation lead to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent advancements, such as the use of porous copper-aluminum framework materials, show potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, addressing stability challenges. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, with Pb blocking three-fold Pt3 sites and Ca enriching electron density around nanoparticles. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, showing minimal deactivation over 1 month, thereby optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as using highly siliceous chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, prevent Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture. The stabilization effect of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts highlight the effectiveness of these strategies. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches, with support modification being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to enhanced electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements involve highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters, leading to excellent catalytic performance and stability in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see improved dispersion and stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance PDH performance. These strategies aim to obtain highly dispersed Pt catalysts. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in improving PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. By preserving atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, and through a benign interaction with the silica support, the formation of tin oxide phases is prevented. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst features atomically mixed precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst shows minimal deactivation, with propane conversion remaining above 39% after 120 minutes. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. The synthesis process ensures high metal dispersion on the support, with an average nanoparticle size of 1.3 ± 0.6 nm, and XRD spectra confirm the formation of Pt-Sn alloy nanoparticles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger metal particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio increase specific activity while reducing carbon deposition, suggesting strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. CoOx species within the zeolite reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by high-temperature calcination and prereduction, achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH support the long-term utility of this eco-friendly and advanced catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% increasing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This diminishes coke formation, suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, and improves propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable dehydrogenation stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's admirable reaction stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, offers a new perspective on stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by their low chemical potential. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds. These compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, significantly enhance the catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts rapidly deactivate due to coke formation, whereas PtREE/zeolite catalysts retain high initial propane conversion and undergo slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The PtREE incorporation in the mesoporous zeolite was achieved through co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under O2 and H2 at high temperatures. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements provide a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation (quotes [2], [3], [4], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (quote [181]). The use of zeolites as supports achieves high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites (quotes [134], [135], [136], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144], [145], [146], [147], [148], [149], [150], [151]). Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, with the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (quotes [166], [167], [168], [169], [170], [171], [172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. This design results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and using hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture. These strategies, exemplified by the stabilization of Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts and the preparation of well-defined surface metal species with single-site precursors, address industrial challenges by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and unique stability characteristics for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated beta (Si-beta), and Pt species are highly dispersed due to strong interaction with Sn(IV) sites. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, which are crucial for catalytic stability. Transition metals, alkaline metals, alkaline earth metals, and rare earth metals, when added as promoters, enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn and tune the acid-base property, positively impacting propane dehydrogenation performance. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best stability test performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these additions, which suppress side reactions and inhibit coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by introducing another metal oxide to enhance dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-promoter-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction has shown promising effects on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. Notably, it operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, demonstrating its efficiency and stability.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that controlling particle size and composition can improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design, inspired by Dzwigaj's method, results in high propane conversion (72%) and propylene selectivity (92%) after prereduction. Small Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. The catalyst's high efficiency and selectivity, combined with Co's earth abundance, offer a low-cost, ecofriendly solution for PDH, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic stability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the preparation and testing of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes utilize Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are enhanced by a high content of Al3+penta sites, which prevent Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for PDH. The high electron density of the confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boosts product desorption, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity in carbon monoxide oxidation. The industrial PDH process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of catalytic selectivity. To address this, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt, diluting the surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina, enhancing catalytic performance through facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to occur at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports to achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites has been demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst that exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ led to weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM, minimizing side reactions and resulting in higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, activated in oxygen, showed better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) blocks carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel double-decoration strategy using Pb and Ca on PtGa intermetallics. This approach synergizes geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 coating through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, and employing single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions and adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizes PtSn clusters and enhances electronic interactions, improving stability and performance. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of support modification. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were developed using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, result in excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene selectivity and formation rates. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, which are critical for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst, in particular, exhibited the best performance in stability tests, with enhanced reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilization of metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications by tuning the interaction between Pt and Sn and modifying catalyst properties to promote catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to enhance central active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been studied extensively. Introducing another metal oxide or noble metal can improve active species dispersion and catalytic stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites, significantly enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency, demonstrating an approach to optimizing catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, as seen with PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. These nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, exhibit high stability and selectivity to propylene. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. This interaction is preserved, preventing segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can achieve near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (&gt;66%) and &gt;99% selectivity, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support avoids the issues seen with traditional catalyst supports. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and &gt;99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This development represents a significant step forward in overcoming challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies have shown that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation processes. Larger metal particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios increase specific activity, while smaller particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios reduce carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%) achieved propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of around 92%. The confined small metallic Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, highlighting the importance of particle size and confinement in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the addition of copper to platinum-based catalysts (Pt/Al2O3) for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. The enhanced anti-coking ability and catalytic performance of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and raises the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production. This unique bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhancement upon copper addition.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    