Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The catalyst's stable active species and strong carbon resistance, due to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensure its admirable reaction stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents the agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters into larger Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of low chemical potential in rare-earth element oxides, enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The novel approach uses zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, which increase the chemical potential of rare-earth elements, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt. This preparation strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as in the PtCo alloy, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has traditionally used PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, causing a loss of catalytic selectivity to propylene. The introduction of Sn forms an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe coke formation and deactivation within one day, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. The PtREE incorporation in the mesoporous zeolite was conducted by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under an O2 flow and subsequently under H2 at high temperatures. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH and cracking, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent developments suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, reducing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy enhances geometric and electronic promotion effects, boosting stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by anchoring Pt via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies for enhanced stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species, and transforming zeolite structures for metal stabilization. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Recent advancements involve the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, which includes dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the dealuminated beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. These catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, and Fe) as promoters into the Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals further enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties and promoting catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation. The In-promoted catalyst demonstrated the best stability test performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to improve Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are improved by forming oxide compounds to enhance dispersion and stability. Appropriate metal oxides or noble metals significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. The h-BN nanosheets, with a high surface area and abundant edges terminated as amino groups, provide an appropriate support for the Pt/Cu catalyst, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-promoter-support relationship, necessitating further research. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with promising results from hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction on 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity for propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. It operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity, and can be partially regenerated, enhancing its practicality for industrial applications. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, indicating that these adjustments can optimize catalytic performance and address fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with CoOx species easily reducible to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small confined Co particles are proven to be highly efficient, offering inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst design. The earth abundance of Co supports its long-term utility in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. Optimizing the Cu loading to 0.5 wt% significantly improves propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and the cracking reaction towards lighter hydrocarbons. Additionally, the higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage on PtCu/Al2O3 suppresses methane formation, improving propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable dehydrogenation stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, making it a breakthrough in dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts depend on Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy addresses the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, as it allows for the discovery of alloy catalysts with various compositions and structures, opening up new opportunities for catalytic applications. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, significantly enhancing PDH catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy savings by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. Despite its energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites to prevent carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel double-decoration strategy using PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This design synergizes geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and nanocarbon with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition, prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation, thus enhancing selectivity to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, and using single-site metal precursors to construct well-defined surface species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts with excellent catalytic performance for PDH. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by improving stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals, when added as promoters, enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties and improving catalytic performance. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, enhancing stability and dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see improvements through the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability. PtGa catalysts have been implemented in production plants, demonstrating industrial application.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation due to the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets. This approach addresses the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, and utilizing single Pt atom sites on a sandwich structure have also shown promise. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures can provide more stable and accessible active sites, enhancing PDH reaction performance. Hydrotalcite reconstruction has shown potential in improving the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, addressing challenges in stability and performance. Traditionally, hydrogen dilution and excess tin were used to prevent carbon buildup and alloy segregation in platinum-tin alloy catalysts, but these strategies reduced efficiency. The new silica-supported catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, achieving over 66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene. This is achieved by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with silica prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, ensuring atomically mixed precursors and small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains stability, with propane conversion only slightly decreasing from 41 to 39% over 120 minutes. The catalyst can also be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The preparation involves Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, resulting in a catalyst that, after prereduction, shows significant propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. This development addresses challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst for PDH with long-term utility due to the earth abundance of Co.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% with a yield of 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalysts. These catalysts, consisting of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieve a high propylene yield (46%) and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C. The stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, leading to admirable PDH reaction stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts depend on Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration during cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for PDH. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalyst maintaining activity over four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by their low chemical potential. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The preparation strategy, involving co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under O2 and H2, results in Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles that significantly enhance catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability. These catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. This advancement addresses catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial propane dehydrogenation applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the selectivity of CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst exhibits outstanding stability due to high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with the potential for operation at 350°C, highlighting the role of surface oxygen species and the redox property of the metal center in achieving this.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying Ni with Au makes the adsorption of C atoms less favorable thermodynamically. NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation and enhance CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites for graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel double-decoration strategy using PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This design synergizes geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be loaded into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and enclosed in MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in highly siliceous chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size (Quote 2), tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles (Quote 3), stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions (Quote 5), encapsulating metals in zeolites for high stability (Quote 6), maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals (Quote 7), preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles (Quote 8), constructing well-defined surface metal species (Quote 9), stabilizing metals through zeolite structure transformation (Quote 10), and achieving single-site formation (Quote 11). These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets, with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and selectivity in PDH. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, incorporate Sn species into the framework, allowing ultra-small Pt nanoclusters with strong PtSn interactions. This results in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, which are crucial for catalytic stability. The In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. This strategy enhances the interaction between Pt and Sn, tunes acid-base properties, and promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles and improving propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to enhance dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see improvements through the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation due to its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored for more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite reconstruction shows promise in improving microstructure and PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the traditional challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation, which required hydrogen dilution and excess tin. The new catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, avoiding the formation of tin oxide phases. It operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene over 66% and selectivity over 99%. It can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst features atomically mixed precursors, small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles, and a benign interaction with the silica support, preventing segregation.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that controlling particle size and composition can enhance catalytic stability and performance, addressing fabrication challenges in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the development of CoSiBeta, a supported metal catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, showing high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH are promising for long-term utility. The high catalytic ability and product selectivity of small confined Co particles provide inspiration for advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Optimizing the Cu loading to 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst arise from the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This interaction diminishes the possibility of coke formation, suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, and requires a higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, thus suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a ZnPt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, with a 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn composition supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, due to the interaction between Pt and Zn, contribute to its remarkable stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with adjustable Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, crucial for consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by their low chemical potential. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quotes 1, 4). These catalysts exhibit significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quotes 6, 14, 16). Under harsh operating conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and to develop selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Additionally, recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces, prevent Pt migration. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds enhance sintering resistance and reduce coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. For instance, synthesis parameters influence Pt-based catalyst particle size, and the approach can tailor bimetallic nanoparticles' size and phase. Strong PtOCe bonds contribute to stabilization, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability. Synthesis can maintain porous texture and anchor active Pt-based metals, prepare uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles, and construct well-defined surface metal species using single-site precursors. Transforming zeolite structures stabilizes metals, and specific synthesis procedures can achieve the formation of Sn single-sites and stabilize highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on modifying supports, notably using nanopore-encaged metals and wet-chemistry. Modification of supports, such as in PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets, with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and activity. Ga addition to Mg(Al)O double hydrotalcites further improves stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibit high dispersion of Pt clusters and excellent PDH performance, with >99% propene selectivity at 550°C and stable activity over four cycles. These advancements address catalyst design and fabrication challenges, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by enhancing interaction between Pt and Sn and tuning acid-base properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and stabilizing active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see enhanced performance through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency, demonstrating an approach to optimizing catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, improving PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges in carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction, resulting in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The preparation method, based on Dzwigaj's technique, followed by high-temperature calcination, results in a catalyst that, after prereduction, achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles are identified as the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. These developments offer novel insights into the design of cost-effective, ecofriendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst exhibits improved anti-coking ability due to inhibited propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and suppressing lighter hydrocarbon cracking. Additionally, the higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage suppresses methane formation. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of these enhancements.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalysts. These catalysts, consisting of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrate a high propylene yield (about 46%) and exceptional stability over 65 h at 525 C without regeneration or H2 as auxiliary gas. The catalyst features two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensures admirable reaction stability. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which are fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as in the PtCo alloy, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize dehydrogenation with hydrogen combustion and to develop selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite extensive research, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, leading to outstanding catalytic stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, using hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture and anchor active metals, and transforming zeolite structures to stabilize metals. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strengthening metal-support interactions through nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification. Modification of supports, particularly with pentacoordinate metal ions, has proven effective. For example, the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, with high activity and stability, benefits from strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits excellent PDH performance due to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites in the Si-beta framework, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, thus achieving good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibited the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, optimize Pt-based catalysts by forming alloys, inhibiting deactivation, and improving Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, like CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, benefit from additional metal oxides, enhancing active species dispersion and catalytic stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts, where doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improves dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites. Support modifications, including ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, and replacing Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4 or Mg(Al)O, aim to stabilize Pt. Single atom sites on Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for 3D oxide nanosheet arrays, enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. It exhibits high stability and selectivity to propylene, achieved by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. This catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Additionally, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity while reducing carbon deposition, demonstrating effective strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The catalyst's preparation involves Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, resulting in a material that shows promising conversion and selectivity. The use of Co, an earth-abundant metal, supports long-term utility and eco-friendly catalyst design. These developments address challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization, offering novel inspiration for low-cost and advanced catalysts in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of the PtCu/Al2O3 catalyst are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the preparation and testing of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrates high propylene yield and exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, which resist carbon deposition. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite serves as the active site, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface defects, known as silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt alloy catalysts, when applied to late transition metals, incorporate a significant amount of the second metal, such as in the PtCo alloy, which shows high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the energy requirement for alkane conversion. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive option for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, as well as selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability and high alkene selectivity in dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ minimizes side reactions, enhancing catalyst stability. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation, and blocks sub-surface sites to hinder carbidic phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong interaction to prevent migration. Pt can be loaded into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and enclosed in MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via a covalent BO bond, reducing coke formation and increasing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in synthesis strategies for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have improved catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These advancements enhance structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications. For instance, the synthesis approach can tailor the size and phase of bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize Pt through strong bonds, and maintain porous texture while anchoring active metals. The synthesis strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts ensures high stability, and the use of single-site metal precursors constructs well-defined surface metal species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification. Modification of supports, particularly through the incorporation of pentacoordinate ions like Al3+ and Ga3+, has proven effective in stabilizing metal clusters and enhancing electronic interactions. For instance, the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst showed high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Similarly, adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved the stability of Pt catalysts. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn interactions, exhibited excellent catalytic performance and stability, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. The introduction of In also promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and leads to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which enhance stability by modifying electronic properties and dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by forming oxide compounds, enhancing dispersion and stability under applied conditions. Appropriate metal oxide or noble metal introduction significantly boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is another approach. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved performance. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, and hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite reconstruction has shown promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's stability is attributed to the preservation of atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of a tin oxide phase. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can also be partially regenerated, enhancing its performance optimization and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling metal particle size and composition. Studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts reveal that increasing particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while reducing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of particle size and composition in improving catalyst stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The confined Co particles are active sites for the PDH reaction, with the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieving propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of 92%. This innovation provides inspiration for the design of low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic performance are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable dehydrogenation stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's admirable reaction stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, crucial for stability and regenerability in consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as in the PtCo alloy, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as shown by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions [2-5]. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its development for industrial applications [6]. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, as well as selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation [134-136]. Notably, the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion on zeolite through ion-exchange and the use of Fe3+ over Al3+, leading to weaker Brnsted sites and minimizing side reactions [137-144]. This catalyst's performance surpasses conventional Pt-based catalysts on refractory oxide supports, which suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation [145-149].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability. These advancements are crucial for industrial applications, optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements in post-synthesis strategies, such as the preparation of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, have led to excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These strategies address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. It also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt's affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, have been studied for stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metal or metal oxide addition boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, optimizes catalytic efficiency. This approach minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts, where doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improves dispersion and electron transfer, boosting performance. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4 and Mg(Al)O, also enhances stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys further improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts. Challenges remain in understanding Pt-M-support relationships, necessitating further research for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. This catalyst, synthesized to preserve atomic mixing of Pt and Sn, avoids carbon buildup and alloy segregation, addressing fabrication challenges. The benign interaction with silica support prevents the formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple cycles. The synthesis process begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and catalytic operation.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability and performance in direct dehydrogenation processes. Larger metal particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio increase specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest effective strategies for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design offers high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with CoOx species easily reducible to active Co particles under H2 or reactant gas. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by high-temperature calcination and prereduction, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This interaction also requires a higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing methane formation, thus improving anti-coking ability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalysts. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525 C without regeneration or H2. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, related to the interaction between Pt and Zn, contribute to its admirable reaction stability. This catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and opens avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts depend on Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically difficult due to their low chemical potential. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. The novel catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. This advancement in catalyst design and fabrication optimizes performance for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation (quotes [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7]). This synergy lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation, making ODH attractive for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (quotes [134], [135], [136], [137], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144], [145], [146], [147], [148], [149], [150], [151]). This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimize side reactions, resulting in higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, with copper providing the active sites, may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, potentially enabling propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (quotes [166], [167], [168], [169], [170], [171], [172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy enhances geometric and electronic promotion effects, improving stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, and B to Pt catalysts can improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and particularly, support modification. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, has shown high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions stabilizing PtSn clusters. Ma et al. furthered this by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing Pt catalyst stability in PDH through the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, has shown excellent catalytic performance for PDH. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions have led to good stability of dehydrogenation and regeneration, with almost unchanged catalytic activity during four cycles at 550 C. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Specifically, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. In also promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and increases propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds to ameliorate active components and prevent deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been studied for stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metal addition can significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are being explored to provide stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promising effects on catalyst microstructure and morphology.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the challenges of traditional catalysts that require hydrogen dilution to prevent carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation. The new catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and formation of a tin oxide phase. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and high selectivity to propylene, and it can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies have shown that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance catalytic stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition. These findings highlight strategies for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieved propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of 92%. The confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, illustrating the impact of recent strategies on catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, increasing the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the preparation and testing of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 h at 525°C in propane dehydrogenation. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, which resist carbon deposition. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters, with high electron density, enhance product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. Zeolite confinement boosts regeneration stability, as evidenced by unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quotes 1, 4). The silanol nests increase the chemical potential of rare-earth elements, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt and form Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles (quote 6). These catalysts exhibit remarkable enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quote 14). Under harsh conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite showed high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days (quote 16). This addresses the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports achieves high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guide the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, activated by metal oxides, may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation than conventional Pt-based catalysts, potentially enabling propane dehydrogenation at 350°C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around the nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by preventing sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification was also noted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancing catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for PDH. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states were incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species were highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts showed excellent catalytic performance and stability, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good dehydrogenation and regeneration stability over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. The introduction of In promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving dispersion and modifying the electronic state of active species.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, optimizes catalytic performance while minimizing platinum usage, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures can provide stable, accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses fabrication challenges by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst features atomically mixed precursors, small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles, and a benign interaction with the silica support. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while reducing carbon deposition, indicating effective strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. The earth abundance of Co suggests long-term utility, making it a promising choice for eco-friendly and advanced catalysts in industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This unique bimetallic interaction also improves propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the preparation and testing of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, containing 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and remarkable stability over 65 h at 525 C in propane dehydrogenation. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, which resist carbon deposition. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn catalysts anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which are fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels. High Al3+penta site content enhances catalyst stability and regenerability, preventing agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, making the catalyst sinter-resistant and regenerable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, enhancing product desorption. Zeolite encapsulation improves regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, which is difficult due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which shows high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation of aqueous solutions of Pt and rare-earth element precursors, followed by heating under O2 and H2, exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation (quotes [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7]). This synergy lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation, making ODH attractive for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (quote [134]). The use of zeolites as supports for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites has been demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (quotes [135], [136], [137], [138], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144], [145], [146], [147], [148], [149], [150], [151]). A porous copper-aluminum framework material stabilized by metal oxide has shown better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3, suggesting the potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (quotes [166], [167], [168], [169], [170], [171], [172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. This design results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt exhibits high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, showing high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to enhanced electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, resulted in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximized surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to improve Pt atom dispersion and stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see performance enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and catalytic stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, optimizes catalytic efficiency while minimizing platinum usage, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts, such as PtIn and PtGa, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O oxides, also optimizes performance. Single atom sites of Pt on Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides stable, accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds, which significantly enhances PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses traditional challenges, such as the need for hydrogen dilution to prevent carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, this catalyst operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach significantly enhances catalytic stability and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance catalytic stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition, indicating improved stability. These findings highlight strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (with 0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small Co particles confined in silanols act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) make it a promising choice for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic stability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. This catalyst features Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn contributing to its carbon resistance and stability. Its composition, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites within mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has long used PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene. Sn introduction forms an alloy with Pt, diluting the surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolite retain high initial propane conversion and undergo slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion after 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation and heating under O2 and H2, exhibit high initial conversion and slow deactivation, with a small amount of Ga potentially contributing to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange, leading to weaker Brnsted sites and minimizing side reactions, thus improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures than conventional Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in high-temperature PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and utilizing carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition also prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 further enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by anchoring Pt via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies for improved stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, enhancing structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. For instance, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, while uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles and Sn single-site frameworks are achieved through specific synthesis methods. These advancements are crucial for industrial applications, improving the overall efficiency of dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets, with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and selectivity in PDH. Similarly, adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, shows excellent PDH performance due to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites in the Si-beta framework, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during regeneration cycles. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters also enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties, and positively impacting propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximized surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, are introduced to regulate active compounds, suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active sites. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, are improved by forming alloys or intermetallic compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are enhanced by introducing another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. Noble metals also enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, addressing challenges in catalyst design. Reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds shows promise in improving microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation faced by traditional catalysts. The new catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide phase formation. The catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This development significantly improves the efficiency and performance of direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger metal particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios increase specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of precise catalyst design in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in the silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, acting as active sites for the PDH reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, showed propane conversion of 72% with 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing catalytic stability and performance. At 0.5 wt% Cu loading, propylene selectivity reaches 90.8% with a yield of 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. The unique PtCu bimetallic interaction also improves propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    