Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, linked to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensure the catalyst's stability. This catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based dehydrogenation catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, effectively disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, improving stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites for PDH, offering high propene selectivity and formation rate due to their high electron density. The zeolite's restriction enhances the catalyst's regeneration stability, maintaining consistent catalytic activity through four consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt alloy catalysts, when applied to late transition metals, incorporate a large amount of the second metal, such as in the PtCo alloy, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as evidenced by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and to develop selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ results in weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation and carbidic phase formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around the nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored to the carrier via a covalent BO bond can prevent sintering and reduce coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing both electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and optimize performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. These advancements address fabrication challenges and improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, as demonstrated by the stabilization effect of strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and notably, support modification. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, improving electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. These strategies, including the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, allow for tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability characteristics for bimetallic systems in PDH processes, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals, when added as promoters, enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn and tune acid-base properties, positively impacting propane dehydrogenation performance. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are improved by forming oxide compounds, modifying coordination and electronic states for better stability. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing platinum requirements while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation, common in traditional platinum-tin alloy catalysts supported on alumina. The new catalyst preserves the atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, it operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst features atomically mixed precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and tin oxide phase formation. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieved near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, demonstrating its effectiveness in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies have shown that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts can enhance their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation processes. Increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. These particles are highly efficient for catalyzing the reaction, achieving propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of 92%. The confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively. This development offers inspiration for designing low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, while also suppressing methane formation. This unique PtCu bimetallic interaction is the primary origin of the enhanced catalytic performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, making it a promising design for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests (1,4). These nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (6). Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit significantly enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (14). Under harsh operating conditions, PtREE/zeolite catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction (16). These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts can guide the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, stabilized by metal oxide, shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C, with higher performance than PtSn/Al2O3, indicating potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, reducing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects for improved stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around the nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, using hydrothermal synthesis to maintain porous texture and anchor active metals, and employing single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as in PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3, with its high activity and selectivity, stabilizes PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements improve stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and REEs form alloys, improving central components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation, enhanced by metal promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, benefit from oxide compound formation, improving active species dispersion and stability. Appropriate metal oxide or noble metal introduction significantly boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. This new catalyst preserves the atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that controlling particle size and composition can improve catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (with 0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. The confined small metallic Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, leading to exceptional PDH reaction stability. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and broadens the scope for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, as demonstrated in the fabrication of highly ordered mesoporous Al2O3 supports.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts product desorption, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, Pt alloy formation with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, which enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt and form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization by providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers the energy requirement for dehydrogenation by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation processes. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent advancements, such as the use of a porous copper-aluminum framework material, show potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: double decorating PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, leading to an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C. Notably, no deactivation was observed for up to 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoat via atomic layer deposition prevents Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering via Mg2PtO4-like compounds and PtOCe bonds, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co have similar effects to Sn in improving stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via covalent BO bonds and reducing coke formation. Si modifies Pt selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture to anchor active metals. The stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts are notable outcomes. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strengthening metal-support interactions through nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification. Support modification, particularly, has proven effective and simple. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions stabilizing PtSn clusters. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhanced the stability of Pt catalysts in PDH, attributed to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, improving electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. These strategies enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability for bimetallic systems in PDH processes. An improved post-synthesis strategy developed for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In particular, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability. The promoters also enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties, and positively impacting propane dehydrogenation catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition to inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are improved by forming oxide compounds to enhance dispersion and stability. Noble metal addition can significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, demonstrates high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternatives like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, enhances stability. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures provide more accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. Challenges in understanding Pt-M-support relationships persist, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have addressed the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation by developing silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These nanoparticles operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, without the need for hydrogen dilution. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, enhancing catalytic stability. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing particle size and increasing Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to enhance catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite's silanols, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The small metallic Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. This innovation addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, offering a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% with a yield of 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 catalysts stem from the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture. This mechanism diminishes coke formation, suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, and improves propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, breaking traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for performance optimization in consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quotes 1, 4). Compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit significantly enhanced PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quotes 6, 14, 16). Under harsh conditions, PtREE/zeolite shows high initial propane conversion and undergoes extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by coupling endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation reactions. ODH operates at lower temperatures than non-ODH, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, enable high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. New research directions include the use of copper-aluminum framework materials, which show promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 for strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Computational screening predicts Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals through hydrothermal synthesis, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and employing single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include modifying supports, using nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as in PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2 catalysts, has proven effective, stabilizing PtSn clusters through strong metal-support interactions. Pentacoordinate Al3+ and Ga3+ ions in supports disperse and stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions and stability. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, shows excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene selectivity and formation rate. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during regeneration cycles. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Specifically, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which enhance dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see improved stability through the addition of metal oxides, modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interaction with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, leads to improved catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing platinum consumption while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure have also been effective. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These methods aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-promoter-support relationship, necessitating more efficient solutions. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution. These catalysts preserve atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The new catalyst operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, demonstrating excellent stability and selectivity without the need for hydrogen dilution.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies have shown that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance their stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes. Specifically, increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio leads to higher specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while carbon deposition decreases. These findings suggest that optimizing catalyst design can address fabrication challenges and improve performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst with ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst shows high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with small metallic Co particles as active sites. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. The high catalytic ability and product selectivity of these small confined Co particles provide inspiration for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for PDH. Bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, highlighting the importance of particle size in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, optimizing performance and stability. An optimal 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced catalytic performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, thus suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, making it a breakthrough in dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with adjustable Al3+penta site levels, enhance the catalyst's stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts propene selectivity and formation rate, with high electron density facilitating product desorption. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation (quotes [2], [3], [4], [5]) to lower energy requirements and operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes (quotes [6], [7]). Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (quotes [134], [135], [136], [137], [139], [140], [141], [142], [143], [144], [145], [146], [147], [148], [149], [150], [151]). Research indicates that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (quotes [166], [167], [168], [169], [170], [171], [172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. NiAu surfaces make C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation, enhancing CO bond formation and removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing catalytic stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around single-atom-like Pt1 sites. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts can improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored to the carrier via a covalent BO bond prevents sintering and reduces coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the nanopore-encaged metal strategy, wet-chemistry approach, and support modification. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters and improves stability, as demonstrated by Lu et al. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, as shown by Ma et al., enhances electronic interactions between Pt and Ga, further improving stability. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. This results in the incorporation of Sn species into the Si-beta framework and the dispersion of Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. The In-promoted catalyst exhibited the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability. This strategy enhances the interaction between Pt and Sn, tunes acid-base properties, and positively impacts propane dehydrogenation catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, enhancing dispersion and electronic properties. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see stability improvements through oxide compound formation, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metal addition boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency. This approach optimizes catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored for more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction impacts microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene, exceeding 66% conversion and 99% selectivity. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance their stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes. Specifically, increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts the specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight the importance of catalyst design and fabrication in optimizing industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co supports the catalyst's long-term utility and eco-friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, enhancing catalytic stability and performance for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, suppressing coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. It also raises the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, reducing methane formation, thus improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, which resist carbon formation. This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, which prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration into larger Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites for propane dehydrogenation, with their high electron density boosting product desorption and resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances the catalyst's regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and stability. Recent findings suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, potentially activated by oxygen, could offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites to prevent carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy synergizes geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, leading to an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces prevent Pt migration and sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2, and additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent BO bonds reduce coke formation and increase selectivity to olefins. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. The stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts are notable outcomes. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strengthening metal-support interactions through nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification. Modification of supports, particularly with pentacoordinate ions, has proven effective in stabilizing metal clusters, enhancing electronic interactions, and improving catalytic performance. For instance, PtSn/Al2O3 and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts have shown high activity, selectivity, and stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) due to strong metal-support interactions. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications by improving stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Specifically, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The addition of In also stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of additional metal oxides, which modify coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst exhibits high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation due to the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets. This design addresses the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing performance. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys further improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds shows promise in improving PDH performance through superior microstructure and morphology.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This is achieved by preserving atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst, synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, features atomically mixed precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles. Under reaction conditions, it exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, can enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, while decreasing carbon deposition, which improves stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in silanols of dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The CoOx species within the zeolite easily reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, serving as active sites for the PDH reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, after prereduction under optimal conditions, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small confined Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH support the catalyst's long-term utility and eco-friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the use of Cu to enhance the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This interaction also suppresses methane formation, improving propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This catalyst, with more Zn and less Pt than previous designs, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. These supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels, disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters effectively. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles, crucial for stability and regenerability in consecutive dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, with high electron density boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, like PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina have been used in the industrial PDH process for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Sn introduction alleviates these issues by diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which offers energy efficiency by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, with weaker acidity minimizing side reactions for higher alkene selectivity and stability. New research directions aim to achieve dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, such as the promising performance of a porous copper-aluminum framework material for propane dehydrogenation at 350 C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth, and boron also blocks sub-surface sites to prevent carbidic phase formation. Sub-surface boron destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel concept: the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This strategy enhances geometric and electronic promotion effects, leading to outstanding catalytic stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against sintering by anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on innovative synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing bimetallic nanoparticles with tailored size and phase, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture while anchoring active metals. Tailoring synthesis approaches can lead to the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks and stabilize highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, with pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for catalytic stability. Specifically, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species. The introduction of In also promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, are introduced to regulate active compounds, suppress side reactions, and inhibit coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, are improved by forming alloys or intermetallic compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, like CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are enhanced by introducing another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, demonstrating an approach to optimize catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts, where doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu into Pt-based catalysts improves dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These advancements aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-promoter-support relationship, necessitating further research. Hierarchical structures and porous morphologies are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene, outperforming traditional catalysts that rapidly deactivate.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger metal particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio increase specific activity, while reducing carbon deposition, indicating effective strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The high catalytic ability and product selectivity of these small confined Co particles offer novel inspiration for advanced catalyst design, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic stability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 h at 525 C. Its stability is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures a stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, leading to admirable reaction stability. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite serves as the active site, with high electron density boosting product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial PDH process, using PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina, faces issues of rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. To address this, researchers use a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a support, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly improves PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering the energy requirement for dehydrogenation. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, motivating its development for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent findings suggest that a porous copper-aluminum framework material could offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, potentially enabling dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around single-atom-like Pt1 sites, enhancing stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces prevent Pt migration. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2, and additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent BO bonds enhance sintering resistance and reduce coke formation. Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and constructing well-defined surface metal species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification, with the latter being notably effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions, enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy created highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states were incorporated into the Si-beta framework, and Pt species were highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. These catalysts showed excellent PDH performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals, when added as promoters, enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties and promoting catalytic performance. The In-promoted catalyst showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and stabilizing active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation due to their affinity for paraffinic CH bonds, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have their catalytic stability enhanced through the introduction of another metal oxide, which modifies the coordination and electronic state of host sites. These strategies significantly enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding interactions between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvements in catalytic efficiency. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications by reducing the amount of expensive platinum required while maintaining high catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored for more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite-like compounds showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses challenges in catalyst design by preventing carbon buildup and avoiding alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. This catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, respectively. These findings highlight the importance of controlling particle size and composition to improve stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, a catalyst featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design boosts catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by high-temperature calcination and prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (with 0.5 wt% Co loading) achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic performance are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. These catalysts, with optimal ratios of Zn and Pt on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrate high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. The 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, containing 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn, features two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's remarkable stability. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new opportunities for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts are significantly influenced by Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of low chemical potential in rare-earth element oxides, which hinders alloy formation with Pt through conventional hydrogen reduction methods. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation and high-temperature heating, show significant enhancements in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. The presence of a small amount of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to the catalytic function. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which lowers energy requirements by combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, as per quotes [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], and [7]. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion and the design of selective catalysts, as highlighted in quote [7]. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as detailed in quotes [134] through [146]. Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies, as noted in quotes [147] through [151]. New research directions, such as the use of porous copper-aluminum framework materials, show promise for achieving dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, as indicated in quotes [166] through [172].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around the nanoparticles, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds and modifying selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. For instance, the synthesis approach can tailor the size and phase of bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, and achieve the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports is particularly effective, as demonstrated by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, which showed high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation, further highlights the effectiveness of these strategies. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability due to the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters also enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties, which positively impacts propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to improve central active components and inhibit deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are also enhanced by introducing another metal oxide to improve dispersion and catalytic stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to remarkable improvement in catalytic efficiency, demonstrating an approach to optimizing catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored for more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite reconstruction shows promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. It operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. Under harsh conditions, propane conversion remains stable at 39% after 120 minutes, outperforming other tested catalysts. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This advancement in catalyst design overcomes limitations of traditional catalysts, enhancing catalytic stability and performance in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger metal particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios increase specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings suggest that precise catalyst design can address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Small Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co suggests long-term utility for this ecofriendly and advanced catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which diminishes coke formation and suppresses cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. This interaction also suppresses methane formation, improving anti-coking ability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of a ZnPt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with the interaction between Pt and Zn ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst design, with higher Zn and lower Pt content than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3 catalysts are significantly influenced by Al3+penta site content, preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite boost product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity over four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity in carbon monoxide oxidation. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has long used PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, reducing selectivity to propylene. Sn introduction forms an alloy with Pt, diluting the surface and preventing coke formation. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina, enhancing catalytic performance through facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation and high-temperature heating, exhibit high initial conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant activity over extended periods. The presence of Ga in the zeolite may also contribute to catalytic function.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation. ODH combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing the process to occur at lower temperatures than non-ODH and cracking, making it an attractive industrial technology. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites has been demonstrated with the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimized side reactions, resulting in higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. NiAu alloying makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while NiSn alloying hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around the nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and nanocarbon with strong interaction with Pt to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be loaded into the spaces between the layers of MgAlOx hydrotalcite and enclosed in the interspace of MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in highly siliceous chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent Pt sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 can also prevent sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can have similar effects as Sn in improving stability. B and Si can also prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing both electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture with hydrothermal synthesis, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for PDH. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta, due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, led to excellent catalytic performance and stability, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters also enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties, which positively impacts propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best stability test performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt dispersion. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to improve active species dispersion and catalytic stability. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly enhance catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation due to the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster maintained by strong bonding between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, focusing on Pt-based catalysts, include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance performance. The goal is to obtain highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating more efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure are explored to provide stable, accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst that operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. Traditionally, hydrogen dilution and excess tin were used to prevent carbon buildup and alloy segregation, but these strategies reduced efficiency. The new catalyst, synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. This approach prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, allowing the catalyst to maintain high conversion levels and selectivity without hydrogen addition. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieved near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This development addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances catalytic stability in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing carbon deposition. These findings highlight strategies for optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges in industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (with 0.5 wt% Co loading) achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. The confined small metallic Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which features 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its performance is attributed to two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's reaction stability. The high Zn and low Pt content challenge traditional understanding and offer new design possibilities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content, with higher levels preventing agglomeration of Pt-Sn clusters during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy within the zeolite boosts product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This strategy addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing silanol nests in mesoporous zeolites, which enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds, such as Pt3La and Pt3Y, are stable, highly active, and selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process has been using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina for nearly three decades, but these catalysts suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition on the Pt surface. To alleviate this issue, Sn is introduced to form an alloy with Pt nanoparticles, diluting the Pt surface with inactive Sn atoms and breaking up coke-generating Pt ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for the alumina support, which boosts the catalytic performance of supported metals by providing facile reactant and product diffusion and high metal nanoparticle dispersion within the mesopores. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances the PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, the conventional PtSn/alumina catalyst experiences severe coke formation and catalyst deactivation within one day, whereas the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Zeolites, as supports, have been used to achieve high metal dispersion, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in zeolites leads to weaker acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guide the rational design of improved catalysts for lower temperature dehydrogenation of C2 and C3 alkanes. A porous copper-aluminum framework material, activated by metal oxide, shows promise for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the potential for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites that promote graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing deactivation due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, leading to outstanding catalytic stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates ultra-stability, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of Mg2PtO4-like compounds and PtOCe bonds, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using PtSn/Al2O3 sheets and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets, with high activity and selectivity in PDH, benefit from strong metal-support interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibit excellent PDH performance due to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by improving stability and selectivity in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. They also tune the acid-base property, positively impacting propane dehydrogenation performance. Specifically, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and enhance Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see improved dispersion and stability through the addition of metal oxides, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has shown high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, addressing challenges in catalyst fabrication and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure exploration provides more stable and accessible active sites. While these strategies improve PDH performance, challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist, necessitating more efficient methods. Hydrotalcite reconstruction has shown promise in enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. Notably, it can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. Additionally, it can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall-sized Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves high catalytic activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The confined Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, demonstrates propane conversion of 72% and propylene selectivity of 92%. This innovation offers a low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst for PDH, leveraging the earth abundance of Co for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, optimizing performance for propane dehydrogenation with a 0.5 wt% Cu loading. This enhances propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    