Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst achieves a high propylene yield of about 46% and remarkable stability over 65 hours at high temperatures without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The catalyst's stable active species and strong carbon resistance, due to the interaction between Pt and Zn, ensure its admirable reaction stability. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, where high Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, crucial for stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges. Confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters enhance product desorption, achieving high propene selectivity and formation rate. Zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity through four cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. This approach enables the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of low chemical potential in rare-earth element oxides. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show a high initial propane conversion of 40% and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, significantly outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, offering energy efficiency and allowing operations at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes. This makes ODH attractive for industrial applications, but commercial technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Notably, the use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent developments suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, potentially revolutionizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, reducing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent innovations in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over a month, effectively addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by anchoring Pt via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies for enhanced stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. demonstrated enhanced stability in PDH using a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst, where γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions stabilized PtSn clusters. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulted in Sn species incorporated into the dealuminated beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters. These catalysts exhibited excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration with unchanged catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals enhance Pt-Sn interaction, tuning acid-base properties for better propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed superior stability, with controlled coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and stabilize active compounds. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to improve Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are improved by forming oxide compounds to enhance dispersion and stability. Appropriate metal oxides or noble metals significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by its interaction with the h-BN nanosheets, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation processes, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The catalyst, synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity for propylene, without hydrogen dilution. It exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, and can be partially regenerated, enhancing its practicality for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts optimizes their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio minimizes carbon deposition. These adjustments effectively address fabrication challenges and optimize catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of CoSiBeta, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst, prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The easily reducible CoOx species to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas serve as active sites. Small confined Co particles are proven highly efficient, inspiring low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalyst design. The earth abundance of Co supports its long-term utility in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. Optimizing Cu loading to 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, increases the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production, thus improving selectivity and anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving a 46% propylene yield and remarkable stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content significantly boosts stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, enhancing product desorption. The zeolite's restriction maintains catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy addresses the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, as it allows for the discovery of alloy catalysts with various compositions and structures, opening up new opportunities for catalytic applications. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, significantly enhancing PDH catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, offering energy savings and lower operating temperatures compared to non-ODH. Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, have shown outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high metal dispersion achieved through cation exchange sites. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in the zeolite framework leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions like cracking and aromatization, thus enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites to prevent carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel double-decoration strategy using PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, synergizing geometric and electronic effects for enhanced stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt, and using carriers like Al2O3 and nanocarbon for strong interaction. Encapsulation in MgAl2O4 spinel or chabazite, and Al2O3 overcoating prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation, enhancing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances electronic interactions between Pt and Ga, improving Pt catalyst stability. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts with excellent PDH performance. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by improving stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals like Ce, In, La, Fe as promoters. These improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals as promoters enhance Pt-Sn interaction, tuning acid-base properties for better performance. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed optimal performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt-based catalysts, improving stability and dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit significantly from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, also see enhanced dispersion and stability through the addition of another metal oxide. PtGa catalysts, an example of industrial implementation, demonstrate the effectiveness of these strategies in addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This system boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, crucial for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Strategies include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) for improved Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, and utilizing single Pt atom sites on a sandwich structure have shown promise. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further efficient methods. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures can provide more stable and accessible active sites, enhancing PDH reaction performance. Hydrotalcite reconstruction has shown potential in improving the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, addressing challenges in stability and performance. Traditionally, hydrogen dilution and excess tin were used to prevent carbon buildup and alloy segregation in platinum-tin alloy catalysts, but these strategies reduced efficiency. The new silica-supported catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, achieving over 66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene. This is achieved by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with silica prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. The catalyst can also be partially regenerated, retaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, emphasizing the critical role of controlling particle size and composition for enhanced stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which uses ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Prepared via Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, it shows high propane conversion and selectivity after prereduction. Active sites are small metallic Co particles in silanols, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles lead to cracking and carbon deposition. This eco-friendly, low-cost catalyst addresses fabrication challenges and offers long-term utility due to Co's earth abundance, optimizing performance for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have highlighted the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% with a yield of 36.5%. This enhancement and the catalyst's anti-coking ability are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalysts, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and remarkable stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, leading to admirable PDH reaction stability. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation by anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, crucial for stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for PDH, addressing fabrication challenges. The confined GaPt alloy boosts product desorption, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, maintaining activity over four cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements, which is typically hindered by their low chemical potential. A novel approach utilizes mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The preparation strategy results in Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles that significantly enhance catalytic performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and durability. These catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH methods. This energy-efficient approach motivates the development of ODH for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the selectivity of CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst exhibits outstanding stability due to high Pt dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation, with the potential for operation at 350°C, highlighting the role of surface oxygen species and the redox property of the metal center in achieving this.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. NiAu alloys make C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation and enhance CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block sites for graphene island growth, and sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve a novel double-decoration strategy using PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, resulting in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt, and using carriers like Al2O3 for strong Pt interaction. Pt can be encapsulated in MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, or coated with Al2O3 to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, with atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 showing enhanced stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size (Quote 2), tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles (Quote 3), stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions (Quote 5), encapsulating metals in zeolites for high stability (Quote 6), maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals (Quote 7), preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles (Quote 8), constructing well-defined surface metal species (Quote 9), stabilizing metals through zeolite structure transformation (Quote 10), and achieving single-site formation (Quote 11). These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, notably PtSn/Al2O3 sheets and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets, with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing stability and selectivity in PDH. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, incorporate Sn species into the framework, allowing ultra-small Pt nanoclusters with strong PtSn interactions. This results in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity, and good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, and La as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed superior stability with controlled coke deposition and high surface Pt species, enhancing Pt-Sn interaction, tuning acid-base properties, and promoting surface Pt oxide reduction, stabilizing metallic Pt particles and improving propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds to suppress side reactions, inhibit coke deposition, and improve dispersion and electronic properties. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to enhance stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, also see improvements through the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and modifying coordination and electronic states. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design, featuring strong bonding between copper and edge BO defects, maintains high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation while minimizing platinum usage and maximizing activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved PDH performance. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite reconstruction has shown promise in improving microstructure and PDH performance, addressing challenges in catalyst design and optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing traditional challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The new catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution and excess tin, increasing productivity. It preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing the formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene over 66% and selectivity over 99%. It can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst features atomically mixed precursors, small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles, and a benign interaction with the silica support, preventing segregation.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation highlight that enlarging metal particle size and adjusting the Sn/Pt ratio can significantly boost specific activity and reduce carbon deposition, thereby enhancing catalytic stability and performance. These findings address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature CoSiBeta, a supported metal catalyst with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Small Co particles act as active sites, offering high catalytic ability and product selectivity, inspired advanced catalyst design. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation promise long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve adding copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Optimizing Cu loading to 0.5 wt% significantly increases propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions, optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the development of a ZnPt/HZ catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a 46% propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with stable active species and strong carbon resistance due to Pt-Zn interaction. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Adjusting Al3+penta site levels enhances stability and regenerability, crucial for preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration in consecutive cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters serve as active sites with high electron density, enhancing product desorption, leading to high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites, addressing the challenge of alloy formation with rare-earth elements (quote 1). Mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quote 4). These catalysts exhibit significant enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability (quotes 6, 14, 16). Under harsh operating conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as an energy-efficient method. ODH combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and to develop selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [134], [135], [140], [141]). The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [143], [144]). Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer superior performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising direction for future research in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation, as shown by computational calculations and experimental evidence.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing design and performance challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats, and loading into MgAl2O4 spinel spaces, prevent Pt migration. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds enhance sintering resistance and reduce coke formation. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. These include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles. Strong PtOCe bonds contribute to stabilization, zeolite-confined Pt catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance supported metal catalyst stability in direct dehydrogenation emphasize support modification, including nanopore-encaged metals and wet-chemistry. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions and Ga addition to Mg(Al)O double hydrotalcites stabilize PtSn clusters, improving stability and activity. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination and metal impregnation, exhibit high dispersion of Pt clusters, achieving >99% propene selectivity at 550°C and stable activity over four cycles. These advancements address catalyst design and fabrication challenges, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and others as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts showed superior stability with moderate coke deposition and higher surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity. This strategy addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by strengthening the interaction between Pt and Sn and tuning acid-base properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, see enhanced performance through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A Pt/Cu cluster catalyst supported on boron nitride nanosheets has demonstrated high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation, minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency, offering an optimized design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve dispersion and electron transfer, enhancing activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, also boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys increase propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, improving PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing challenges in carbon buildup and alloy segregation. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction, resulting in atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors and very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and high selectivity to propylene, with excellent stability and the ability to be partially regenerated.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts show that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, highlighting the significance of controlling particle size and composition for improved catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieving 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. This boosts anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation, and suppressing lighter hydrocarbon cracking. The higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage also curbs methane formation, optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, has two active centers: Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, challenging traditional understanding and offering new design avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which are fabricated with varying Al3+penta site levels to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, enhancing stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt and the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking methods. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to synergize dehydrogenation with hydrogen combustion and to develop selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite extensive research, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, leading to outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) at 600C. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing design, fabrication, and performance challenges for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via covalent bonds, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on novel synthesis strategies. These include tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles' properties, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and maintaining porous texture to anchor active metals. Specific examples include the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and the stabilization of highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include strengthening metal-support interactions through nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification. Modification of supports, particularly with pentacoordinate metal ions, has proven effective. The PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, with high activity and stability, benefits from strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibits excellent PDH performance due to the strong interaction between Pt and Sn(IV) sites in the Si-beta framework, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, thus achieving good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and others as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, resist sintering, and reduce coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and high surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs optimize Pt-based catalysts by forming alloys, inhibiting deactivation, and improving Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, benefit from additional metal oxides, enhancing active species dispersion and catalytic stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters, enhancing catalytic stability and efficiency in propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the clusters, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects, boosts activity while minimizing platinum usage, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts, where doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improves dispersion and electron transfer, as exemplified by PtIn and PtGa nanoparticles on calcined hydrotalcites. Support modifications, including ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, and replacing Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4 or Mg(Al)O, aim to stabilize Pt. Single atom sites on Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, such as the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for 3D oxide nanosheet arrays, provide more stable and accessible active sites, enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst. This catalyst operates at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, addressing challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation. It exhibits high stability and selectivity to propylene, achieved by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. This catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Additionally, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies demonstrate that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, effectively optimizing supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst, prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The use of Co supports eco-friendly design and long-term utility, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Cu loading in Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An ideal 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. Notably, the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, exhibits high propylene yield and exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles that resist carbon deposition. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, preventing agglomeration and ensuring regenerability, critical for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges. The confined GaPt alloy boosts propene selectivity and formation rate, while the zeolite's restriction maintains catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface defects, known as silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing the energy requirement for alkane conversion [2]. This synergy allows ODH to operate at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes, making it an attractive option for industrial applications [5]. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion, as well as selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation [134]. The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability and high alkene selectivity in dehydrogenation of light alkanes [140, 141]. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ minimizes side reactions, enhancing catalyst stability [143, 144]. Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer even better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures [166, 167].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation, and blocks sub-surface sites to hinder carbidic phase formation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating a stable Pt1 site. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt on carriers, and using carriers like Al2O3 to prevent Pt migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and enclosing it in MgAl2O4 spinel, prevent Pt migration. Chabazite encapsulation and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, reducing coke formation and increasing olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in synthesis strategies for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have improved catalytic stability. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These advancements enhance structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications. The synthesis approach can tailor the size and phase of bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilize Pt through strong bonds, and maintain porous texture while anchoring active metals. The synthesis strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts ensures high stability, and the use of single-site metal precursors constructs well-defined surface metal species.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, particularly through the incorporation of pentacoordinate ions like Al3+ and Ga3+. This modification has proven effective in stabilizing metal clusters and enhancing electronic interactions. For instance, the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst, with γ-Al2O3 nanosheets containing a great deal of pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, showed high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Similarly, adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved the stability of Pt catalysts. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, achieving good stability of dehydrogenation and regeneration with almost unchanged catalytic activity during four cycles at 550 C.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. In's introduction promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and increases propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which enhance stability by modifying electronic properties and dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by forming oxide compounds, enhancing dispersion and stability under applied conditions. The introduction of an appropriate metal oxide or noble metal significantly boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves using boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters. This system boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability, minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong copper-edge BO defect bonding on h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency, optimizing design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), improving dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure or PtCu alloys have shown improved PDH performance. These strategies aim for highly dispersed Pt catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Hierarchical structures are explored for more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in enhancing microstructure for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This innovation avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by maintaining thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The catalyst's stability is attributed to the preservation of atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of a tin oxide phase. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can also be partially regenerated, enhancing its performance optimization and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes emphasize controlling metal particle size and composition. Studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts show that increasing particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and reduces carbon deposition, crucial for improving catalyst stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This innovation achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications, while being low-cost and eco-friendly.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly enhances propylene selectivity and yield, attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction that improves anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppressing coke formation and methane production, thus optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield and remarkable stability in dehydrogenation processes. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, challenging traditional understanding and offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents cluster agglomeration, crucial for stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining catalytic activity after multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as shown by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over extended periods. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a promising approach due to its energy efficiency [2-5]. ODH couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing operations at lower temperatures than non-ODH processes [6]. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps [7]. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst demonstrates outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion on zeolite through ion-exchange and the use of Fe3+ over Al3+, leading to weaker Brnsted sites and minimizing side reactions [137-144]. This catalyst's performance surpasses conventional Pt-based catalysts on refractory oxide supports, which suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke formation [145-149].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergistic geometric and electronic effects. Notably, the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing challenges in fabrication and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite and Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formations. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, particularly for Pt-based catalysts, include support modification. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, due to the dispersion and stabilization of PtSn clusters by pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements in post-synthesis strategies, such as the preparation of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, have led to excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These strategies address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst excelled, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, thus increasing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction to regulate active compounds. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it an effective catalyst for alkane dehydrogenation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, have been studied for stability enhancement through oxide compound formation, which modifies coordination and electronic states. Noble metal or metal oxide addition boosts catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, optimizing catalytic performance by minimizing platinum usage. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects, addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with Pt doped with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, enhancing dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4 and Mg(Al)O improves stability. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts. Challenges in understanding Pt-M-support relationships persist, necessitating further research for optimal catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits for propane dehydrogenation with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution. This catalyst, synthesized to preserve atomic mixing of Pt and Sn, avoids carbon buildup and alloy segregation, addressing fabrication challenges. The benign interaction with silica support prevents the formation of tin oxide phases, enhancing catalytic stability. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple cycles. The synthesis process begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and catalytic operation.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the control of particle size and composition in supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, to enhance catalytic stability and performance in direct dehydrogenation. Larger particle size and higher Sn/Pt ratio boost specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and minimize carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst. This catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The design addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial PDH applications, with small confined Co particles identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieving 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. The Pt-Cu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and cracking reactions. This interaction also requires a higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, reducing methane formation, thus improving anti-coking ability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the development of 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalysts. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, due to the interaction between Pt and Zn, contribute to its reaction stability. The catalyst's composition, with more Zn and less Pt than previous PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and opens avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, improving stability and regenerability, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters enhance product desorption, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, with unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles formed on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, outperforming conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts under harsh operating conditions. The novel catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering the energy requirement for dehydrogenation and making ODH attractive for industrial applications. Innovative catalyst design is crucial for commercial ODH technologies to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, leading to outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. This catalyst's high Pt dispersion and the choice of Fe3+ minimize side reactions, resulting in higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, with copper providing the active sites, may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation than PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, potentially enabling propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around Pt1 sites, synergizing geometric and electronic effects. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation, while atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, and B to Pt catalysts can improve stability and prevent sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, as demonstrated by zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strengthening metal-support interactions, notably through support modification. Lu et al. demonstrated high activity, selectivity, and stability in a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, attributed to strong interactions between PtSn clusters and γ-Al2O3 nanosheets. Ma et al. further enhanced stability by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters via pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. These approaches enable tuning and enhancement of catalytic activity and selectivity for bimetallic systems. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, showcases excellent catalytic performance for PDH. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states incorporated into the Si-beta framework and highly dispersed Pt species due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions have led to good stability of dehydrogenation and regeneration, with almost unchanged catalytic activity during four cycles at 550 C. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe) as promoters. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit superior performance by improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. In promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizes metallic Pt particles, and increases propylene selectivity and stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve promoter introduction to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have been optimized through oxide compound formation, modifying coordination and electronic states. Noble metal addition significantly boosts catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes uses a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster, designed to reduce platinum usage while boosting catalytic activity. This catalyst shows high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation, thanks to the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster maintained by strong bonding interactions, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) to improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4 and Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. The goal is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promising effects on catalyst microstructure and morphology.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses challenges of traditional catalysts requiring hydrogen dilution to prevent carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation. The new catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. It shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and high selectivity to propylene, and it can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight controlling particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts as a strategy to enhance catalytic stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity, while decreasing size and increasing the ratio reduces carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which utilizes ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, as demonstrated by the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. The confined Co particles serve as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, illustrating the impact of recent strategies on catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The PtCu bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, increasing the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves high propylene yield and remarkable stability in propane dehydrogenation. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles that resist carbon deposition. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, where high Al3+penta site content prevents cluster agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges. The high electron density of confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters enhances product desorption, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. Zeolite confinement also improves regeneration stability, as evidenced by stable catalytic activity over four cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the development of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These zeolites, with surface framework defects known as silanol nests, enable the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The silanol nests increase the chemical potential of rare-earth elements, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt and form Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These catalysts exhibit remarkable enhancement in PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite showed high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days. This addresses the challenges in catalyst design and fabrication, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering the energy requirement and enabling lower operating temperatures compared to non-ODH methods. This energy efficiency motivates the development of ODH for industrial applications. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ over Al3+ in zeolites leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Recent reports suggest that porous copper-aluminum framework materials, activated by metal oxides, may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation than conventional Pt-based catalysts, potentially enabling propane dehydrogenation at 350°C.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, creating a single-atom-like Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by preventing sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster anchored via a covalent BO bond reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, tailoring bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for PDH with excellent catalytic performance and stability, demonstrating the effectiveness of these strategies in enhancing catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic use of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, La, Ce) as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species. The introduction of In promoted the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilized metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit significantly from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving dispersion and modifying the electronic state of active species.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst demonstrates high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, minimizes platinum usage while optimizing catalytic performance, making it a promising solution for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O oxides boosts performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Hierarchical structures provide stable, accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses fabrication challenges by preserving atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion and high selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining significant activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the effectiveness of controlling particle size and composition in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation, enhancing stability and performance. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, demonstrating strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in PDH. Confined Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles affect cracking and carbon deposition. Co's earth abundance suggests long-term utility in eco-friendly industrial PDH applications, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. This bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and diminishes coke formation, suppressing cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons. It also improves propylene selectivity while reducing methane formation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. Notably, the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and remarkable stability over 65 h in propane dehydrogenation. Its stability is attributed to the interaction between Pt and Zn, creating Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles that resist carbon deposition. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which are fabricated with variable Al3+penta site levels. High Al3+penta site content boosts stability and regenerability, preventing agglomeration during cycles, ensuring sinter-resistance and enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for PDH, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density and improving regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This addresses the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements, which is difficult due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolites significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after 30 days of reaction. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, providing a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines dehydrogenation and oxidation to lower the energy requirement for alkane conversion (quote [2]). This energy-efficient process requires innovative catalyst design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts (quote [134]). Notably, the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, supported by zeolites for high metal dispersion, exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (quotes [139], [140]). A porous copper-aluminum framework material stabilized by metal oxide has shown superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, suggesting potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures (quotes [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing geometric and electronic stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. This design results in the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, which exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation, with atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhancing stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis methods for controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These approaches improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt exhibits high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification. Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH showed high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibited excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximized surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters to improve Pt atom dispersion and stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, see performance enhancement through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and catalytic stability by modifying the coordination and electronic state of host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has been developed for propane dehydrogenation, showcasing high efficiency and stability. This innovation optimizes catalytic performance while minimizing platinum usage, effectively addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts like PtIn and PtGa, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O oxides optimizes performance. Single atom sites of Pt on Pt-Sn/γ-Al2O3 and PtCu alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, addressing traditional challenges. The benign interaction with silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases, enhancing catalytic stability. Notably, this catalyst operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, significantly enhancing performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies demonstrate that the stability and performance of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts in ethane dehydrogenation can be enhanced by controlling particle size and composition. Increasing the metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio improves specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, indicating enhanced stability. These findings offer strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes, addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method followed by high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. Small Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The earth abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation make it a promising choice for low-cost, eco-friendly, and advanced catalysts for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% enhances propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5% in propane dehydrogenation. The improved anti-coking ability and catalytic stability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and increases the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its composition, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites within mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Higher Al3+penta site content significantly enhances stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by utilizing zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds are stable, highly active catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, showing improved activity, selectivity, and durability compared to conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts. Under harsh conditions, Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolite retain high initial propane conversion and undergo slow deactivation, maintaining 8% conversion after 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking (Quote [2], [3], [5]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps and the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (Quote [13], [14], [16], [17], [18]). The use of zeolites as supports, such as in the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion through cation exchange, leading to weaker Brnsted sites and minimizing side reactions, thus improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [24]). Recent research suggests that porous copper-aluminum framework materials may offer better performance for propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures than conventional Pt-based catalysts (Quote [167], [170]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. This design, exemplified by PtGaCaPb/SiO2, shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing high-temperature PDH catalyst challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it on carriers, and utilizing carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition also prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 further enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability by anchoring Pt via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies for enhanced stability and performance. Key strategies include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Specific synthesis methods have achieved the formation of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability, uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles, and Sn single-site frameworks. These advancements are crucial for industrial applications, enhancing the overall efficiency of dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metal, and wet-chemistry methods. Notably, modifying supports with PtSn/Al2O3 sheets and Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheets, containing pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilize PtSn clusters, enhancing PDH stability and selectivity. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improves Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters with pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalyst, prepared by dealumination and metal impregnation, shows excellent PDH performance due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions in the Si-beta framework, inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stability and catalytic activity during regeneration cycles. These advancements address catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals like Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Promoters enhance the interaction between Pt and Sn, tuning acid-base properties, and improving propane dehydrogenation performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best stability, with moderate coke deposition and maximized surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles for higher propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based systems. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs are introduced to regulate active compounds, suppress side reactions, and stabilize active sites. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, are improved through alloying or forming intermetallic compounds. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are enhanced by introducing another metal oxide to improve dispersion and stability. Noble metals also significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This catalyst system, designed to minimize platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, exhibits high efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by the strong bonding interaction between copper and edge BO defects on the h-BN nanosheets, leads to a significant improvement in catalytic efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, and single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure or PtCu alloys, enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide more stable and accessible active sites, addressing design challenges. Reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds improves microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the challenges of carbon buildup and alloy segregation faced by traditional catalysts. The new catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide phase formation. The catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This development significantly improves the efficiency and performance of direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts have enhanced stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Larger metal particle sizes and higher Sn/Pt ratios boost specific activity and decrease carbon deposition, underscoring the significance of precise catalyst design in tackling fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. CoOx species within the zeolite reduce to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, acting as active sites for PDH. Small metallic Co particles are identified as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, significantly improving performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation. This bimetallic interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions, leading to enhanced propylene selectivity and reduced methane formation. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu is key to these improvements, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    