Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, with 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ as the optimal variant. This catalyst, containing 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, with stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters, ensuring stability and regenerability, as demonstrated in propane dehydrogenation cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters within the zeolite serve as active sites, with high electron density boosting product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. Notably, the zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve PtREE alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The resultant Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods. This strategy, when applied to late transition metals, produces Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts open new opportunities for catalytic applications, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH processes. This synergy motivates ODH's development for industrial use, though commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Understanding the mechanisms of CH activation on different catalysts can guide the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve a novel double-decoration strategy using PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This design synergizes geometric and electronic effects to enhance stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt particles, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and sintering. Encapsulation methods using highly siliceous chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats have proven effective in preventing Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe bonds. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster, anchored via a covalent BO bond, reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key methods include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions (PtOCe bonds, quote 5), encapsulating metals in zeolites for high stability (quote 6), maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, among other methods. Lu et al. demonstrated enhanced stability in PDH using PtSn/Al2O3, attributed to strong interactions between metals and γ-Al2O3 nanosheets rich in pentacoordinate Al3+ ions. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, possibly due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions stabilizing PtSn clusters. This strategy, also observed in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts, allows for tuning catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states, leading to excellent PDH performance and stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of various metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. In particular, In-promoted catalysts have shown the best performance, featuring moderate coke deposition, maximum surface Pt species, and stabilized metallic Pt particles, which significantly improve propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, using promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs to form alloys and improve stability. Promoters suppress side reactions and enhance stability, while Pt's affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective. Metal oxides enhance dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. Introducing noble metals or metal oxides boosts performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing catalysts for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A Pt/Cu cluster catalyst supported on boron nitride nanosheets has demonstrated high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of minimizing platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, leads to improved catalytic efficiency, optimizing catalyst design for industrial applications by reducing expensive platinum usage while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based catalysts. Bimetallic catalysts, formed by doping promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as evidenced by the superior performance of PtIn and PtGa NPs supported on hydrotalcites. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides enhances stability and accessibility. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys significantly boost PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure provide more stable and accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions, as the hierarchical microstructure may offer more stable and easily accessible active sites. The reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds shows promise in optimizing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the challenge of carbon buildup and alloy segregation, common in traditional catalysts. The benign interaction of these nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The catalyst is synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. This allows the catalyst to operate without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and high selectivity to propylene, even under harsh conditions. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies demonstrate that controlling the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, effectively addressing catalyst design and optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared using Dzwigaj's technique followed by high-temperature calcination, this catalyst achieves high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Small Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, highlighting the importance of particle size in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the use of Cu to boost the catalytic stability of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieves 90.8% propylene selectivity and a 36.5% yield. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability of PtCu/Al2O3 are attributed to the bimetallic interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption, increases the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppresses coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which combines 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This breaks traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. The stability and regenerability of these catalysts are significantly influenced by the content of Al3+penta sites, which effectively prevents the agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing stability and performance. The confined GaPt alloy boosts propene selectivity and formation rate, with high electron density facilitating product desorption. Notably, the catalyst maintains activity after four cycles, demonstrating improved regeneration stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt and form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts, when applied to late transition metals, result in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a key strategy [2][3][4][5][6]. ODH combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, offering energy savings and operating at lower temperatures than non-ODH methods [7]. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to synergize the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in designing efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation [134][135][136]. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, with high Pt dispersion on zeolite through ion-exchange, exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes [139][140][141][142][143][144][145][146][147][148][149][150][151]. Research suggests copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures [166][167][168][169][170][171][172].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic promotion effects. Pb blocks the three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches the single-atom-like Pt1 site, creating an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C. Notably, this catalyst exhibits outstanding stability, with no deactivation observed for up to 1 month, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3, MgAl2O4, and CeO2 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on innovative synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, as evidenced by the stabilization effect of Pt through strong bonds, the synthesis of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and the stabilization of metals through support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include strengthening metal-support interactions through nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification. Modification of supports, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions or adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizes PtSn clusters and enhances electronic interactions. PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2 catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability, with PtSn/CeO2 showing unique stability. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation, results in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These catalysts maintain stability during multiple cycles due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. This strategy improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts show the best performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, thus achieving higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve the introduction of promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. These promoters form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability and dispersion of active species through the introduction of another metal oxide, which improves coordination and electronic state, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst. This design, characterized by the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster bonded with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, boosts catalytic efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. It minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, such as ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, particularly hydrotalcite-like compounds, provide more stable and accessible active sites, enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, it operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, showcasing its effectiveness. Additionally, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining over 97% of initial activity and over 99% of initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight the enhancement of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts' stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation by controlling particle size and composition. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, underscoring the significance of precise catalyst design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, inspired by Dzwigaj's method. This design offers high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, with confined Co particles as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The catalyst's high activity, selectivity, and Co's earth abundance make it a promising low-cost, eco-friendly option for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with optimized Cu loading at 0.5 wt% enhancing propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu boosts catalytic performance and anti-coking ability, inhibiting propylene adsorption and suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, particularly the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst. This catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, demonstrates high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. With more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn-based catalysts, it challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation by using Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn cluster agglomeration, ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as shown in quote [1]. These nanoparticles, as highlighted in quote [4], significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as demonstrated in quote [14]. Under harsh operating conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite (PtLa/mz-deGa) showed a high initial propane conversion of 40% and underwent extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, as noted in quote [16]. This strategy, as mentioned in quote [24], opens up new opportunities for catalytic applications by allowing the discovery of various alloy catalysts with different compositions and structures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes leverage oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [5]). This energy efficiency motivates ODH's industrial development, though commercial success hinges on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms are crucial for the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (Quote [134], [135], [136]). Notably, the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, supported by zeolite, achieves outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and minimized side reactions from weaker Brnsted sites (Quote [139], [140], [141], [143], [144]). A recent study highlights a porous copper-aluminum framework material, activated by metal oxide, showing promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350°C, potentially outperforming PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. NiAu alloys make C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation and enhance CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, leading to an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C. This catalyst exhibits exceptional stability, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it, and using carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking, with B and Si modifying selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of Pt.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis strategies for enhanced stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Specific examples include the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, uniform PtIn bimetal nanoparticles for optimized performance, and the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks for enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on strengthening metal-support interactions. Modification of supports, like using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions and catalyst stability. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation, exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce, In, La, Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals enhance Pt-Sn interaction, tuning acid-base properties for better performance. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed optimal stability with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys to enhance central active components. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by forming oxide compounds that modify the coordination and electronic state of host sites, enhancing stability. Introducing noble metals or metal oxides boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation uses a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster, minimizing platinum while maximizing activity. The unique geometry, maintained by strong copper-edge BO defect bonding, boosts efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, which improve dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites. Modifying Al2O3 support with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, and utilizing single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure have shown benefits. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides stable, accessible active sites, enhancing PDH reaction performance. Hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction has shown promise in improving the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts have led to the development of silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of propane (&gt;66%) and &gt;99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% initial activity and &gt;99% selectivity after three cycles. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that adjusting the metal particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances catalytic stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. By increasing the metal particle size and Sn/Pt ratio, specific activity is boosted, and carbon deposition is reduced, offering effective strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst shows high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), with CoOx species easily reducing to metallic Co particles under H2 or reactant gas. After prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Its earth-abundant Co ensures long-term utility, making it a promising ecofriendly and advanced choice for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieving 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. The Pt-Cu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppresses coke formation, and improves selectivity, making it a key strategy for performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield (46%) and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites created by framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance. This makes the catalyst more Zn-rich and Pt-lean, breaking traditional understanding and paving the way for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites within mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High levels of Al3+penta sites enhance stability and regenerability by preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, boosting product desorption. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, as evidenced by unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These catalysts address the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction, thus addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications, particularly in overcoming issues of coke deposition and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing reactions at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation can guide the design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation, which is consistent with experimental findings showing improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. This design blocks three-fold Pt3 sites with Pb and enriches electron density around nanoparticles with Ca, creating a PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. It exhibits outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite layers and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against these issues. Computational screening suggests Si can modify selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties of Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include stabilizing metals with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and constructing well-defined surface metal species. Examples include the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and the stabilization of highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, attributed to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Advancements include the development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated beta (Si-beta), and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. These catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene selectivity and good stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using metals like Ce, In, and La as promoters. These improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst showed superior performance with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction for Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition, enhancing stability and performance. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have their stability enhanced through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and modifying host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design minimizes platinum usage, maximizes catalytic activity, and improves efficiency for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong copper-edge BO defect bonding, optimizes performance and addresses fabrication challenges for industrial applications by reducing platinum while maintaining high activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, and utilizing single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure, have also shown promise in achieving highly dispersed and stable Pt catalysts for improved performance. PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, particularly the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds, provide more stable and accessible active sites, leading to superior PDH performance. However, challenges remain in understanding the exact relationship between Pt, promoters, and supports, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, without hydrogen dilution. This catalyst preserves the atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization by achieving near-thermodynamic conversion levels and selectivity without decreasing productivity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that adjusting the composition and metal particle size of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts optimizes catalytic stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes. Increasing particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity, while decreasing size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio minimizes carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. This catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, achieving 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. The active sites are small metallic Co particles, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosts propylene selectivity and yield for propane dehydrogenation. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, increases the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and cracking reactions. This mechanism also suppresses methane formation, improving propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements have led to the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving a 46% propylene yield and outstanding stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its stability is due to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt, challenges conventional wisdom and paves the way for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which prevent agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles, enhancing stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost product desorption, resulting in high propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. This novel approach enables rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods of reaction, addressing the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures and reduced energy requirements compared to non-ODH processes. This energy intensification advantage makes ODH attractive for industrial applications, but commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by mitigating coke formation and enhancing catalyst robustness.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, leading to PtGaCaPb/SiO2's exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site precursors for well-defined surface species, and stabilizing metals through zeolite structure transformations. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and notably, support modification. Incorporating pentacoordinate ions into supports has proven effective, as demonstrated by the high stability of PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts in PDH due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhanced Pt catalyst stability in PDH by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, resulted in high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, improving redox properties, antisintering ability, and coke resistance. Tuning acid-base properties with transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals enhances Pt-Sn interaction, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts showed optimal stability test performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability and performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, see improved stability and dispersion through the introduction of another metal oxide. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters, enhancing propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability. This innovation minimizes platinum usage, optimizes catalytic activity, and addresses fabrication challenges, making it suitable for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, enhances dispersion. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide stable, accessible active sites, improving PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding Pt-M-support relationships, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution and increasing productivity. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Controlling particle size and composition in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation and minimizes carbon deposition, addressing design and optimization challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which uses ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols for high PDH activity and selectivity. CoOx species easily reduce to active Co particles under H2 or reactant gas. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, after optimal prereduction, achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. Small Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, highlighting the importance of particle size in catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the strategic addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Optimizing Cu loading to 0.5 wt% significantly improves propylene selectivity and yield. The enhanced stability and anti-coking ability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppresses coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ, a ZnPt-based catalyst supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn, achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and catalytic stability. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after multiple cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests (quote 1). These zeolites enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (quote 4). The preparation strategy results in Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity, as demonstrated by the Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite, which showed a high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction (quotes 6, 14, 16). These advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization, offering a stable and highly active catalyst for industrial applications, particularly in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes focus on oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms provide a platform for the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [134], [135]). The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [140], [141], [143], [144]). Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies (Quote [166]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to resist sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and anchoring active metals. These strategies improve structural stability and catalytic activity, addressing design and performance challenges. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, optimizing catalysts for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification, with the latter being particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for PDH. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts showed excellent catalytic performance, with a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 at 550 C and >99% selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic introduction of promoters like Ce, In, and La into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters notably improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. The In-promoted catalyst stands out, exhibiting moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, which promotes higher propylene selectivity and stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. These promoters enhance stability in Pt-based catalysts by modifying electronic properties and dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are improved by forming oxide compounds, enhancing dispersion and stability. The introduction of noble metals or metal oxides boosts catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent innovation in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheets, significantly improves catalytic efficiency for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for Pt-based catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) that boost Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Hierarchical microstructure and porous supports provide stable, accessible active sites, as shown by the superior PDH performance of hydrotalcite-like compounds with a 3D oxide nanosheet array. Challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, it ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation. Notably, it operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding thermodynamic limit decreases on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieved >66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene. It can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for dehydrogenation involve controlling particle size and composition, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, to boost activity and reduce carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. This design, inspired by Co's earth abundance, offers a low-cost, eco-friendly solution for PDH, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly enhances propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by improving anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts. The optimal 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieves a high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst design, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, where high Al3+penta site content prevents cluster agglomeration, improving stability and regenerability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters boost propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, enhancing product desorption. The zeolite's restriction maintains catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, demonstrating enhanced regeneration stability and addressing catalyst design challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests to enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolite retain 8% propane conversion after 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation and heating under O2 and H2, exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Understanding CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guides the design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes include a novel double-decoration strategy using PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This approach synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, enhancing stability. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Pt can be encapsulated in materials like MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, or coated with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition to prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and the PtOCe bond. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding metals like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si can prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring non-stoichiometric PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts that Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong PtOCe bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization. Zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, highlighting the role of electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for PDH, with a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 and >99% selectivity at 550 C, and 3.1 mol g1Pt h1 at 600 C. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during four cycles at 550 C.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve introducing metals like Ce and In as promoters into Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. The strategy enhances Pt-Sn interaction, tunes acid-base properties, and optimizes performance. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the strategic use of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, effectively suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. These strategies stabilize active compounds, crucial for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it an effective catalyst for dehydrogenation, and alloying it with promoters significantly improves stability. Similarly, forming oxide compounds with metal oxides (CoOx, ZnOx, VOx, CrOx) enhances dispersion and stability, further boosting catalytic performance. These strategies have been developed to overcome the plights in catalyst fabrication and to optimize the catalyst performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A Pt/Cu cluster catalyst supported on boron nitride nanosheets has demonstrated high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation. Its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, optimizes performance by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity, effectively addressing fabrication challenges for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for Pt-based catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) that improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved PDH activity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing PDH performance. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides more stable and accessible active sites. Hydrotalcite-like compounds' reconstruction enhances microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, achieved by preserving the atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring that the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that controlling the size and composition of supported metal catalysts, like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, enhances catalytic stability in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio improves specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst achieves a propane conversion rate of 72% and a propylene selectivity of around 92%, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%. The earth abundance of Co suggests its long-term utility for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield with 0.5 wt% Cu. This boosts anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation and suppressing cracking reactions. The PtCu bimetallic interaction raises the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, minimizing methane formation, and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a high propylene yield and remarkable stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance ensure admirable reaction stability. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new opportunities for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites of mesoporous Al2O3 supports, with varying Al3+penta site levels to disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content boosts stability and regenerability, preventing Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, boosting product desorption and high propene selectivity due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, with catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four cycles, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address fabrication challenges by enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit superior performance, opening new opportunities for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. New materials, such as porous copper-aluminum frameworks, show potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, leading to the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. This catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds, reducing coke formation and increasing olefin selectivity. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize innovative synthesis strategies. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts enhance stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize support modification. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, developed by Lu et al., exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions. The importance of support modification was also highlighted in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH were prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, showcasing excellent catalytic performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit superior performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt's effectiveness for alkane dehydrogenation is enhanced by promoters that adjust electronic properties and improve Pt dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts benefit from the introduction of another metal oxide to form compounds that enhance dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst, which demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency while minimizing platinum usage, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts such as PtIn and PtGa, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxides, enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures aims to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in improving microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, avoiding Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation due to benign interaction with the silica support. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains propane conversion rates, and TEM images confirm the well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining >99% of initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies demonstrate that the stability and performance of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts in ethane dehydrogenation are enhanced by controlling particle size and composition. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio improves specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, highlighting effective strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, followed by high-temperature calcination and prereduction, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) achieves 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity. Confined small metallic Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, respectively, impacting the catalyst's stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production, thus improving anti-coking ability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves high propylene yields and exceptional stability over 65 hours at high temperatures without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. This catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, features active centers from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's remarkable stability. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes involve Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which prevent agglomeration during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, ensuring stability and regenerability. The high content of Al3+penta sites effectively maintains the dispersion of Pt-Sn clusters, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters act as active sites, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. This novel approach enables the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of low chemical potential in rare-earth element oxides. The Pt alloy catalysts, such as PtCo, exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The industrial PDH process, using PtSn bimetallic catalysts supported on porous alumina, faces issues with rapid deactivation due to coke deposition. To overcome this, researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile reactant and product diffusion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a key strategy. ODH couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, enabling lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes (Quote [2], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, requiring synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, with weaker acidity minimizing side reactions (Quotes [134]-[144]). Research on porous copper-aluminum framework materials suggests potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the role of surface oxygen species and the redox property of the metal center in catalysis (Quotes [166]-[172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes include the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst shows exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 with strong interaction to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts can improve stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against these issues by anchoring the PtB cluster via a covalent BO bond, preventing sintering and reducing coke formation. Si can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. For example, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, as exemplified by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, which exhibited high activity, selectivity, and stability. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters through electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. These strategies, also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts, enable tuning of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability in bimetallic systems. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation, resulted in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the introduction of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca, and others) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts showed the best performance in stability tests, with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, demonstrating higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters such as Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and enhancing Pt atom dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are improved by forming oxide compounds to modify coordination and electronic states, enhancing stability. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst has enhanced propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability, addressing challenges in platinum usage and catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, optimizes performance for industrial applications by reducing expensive platinum requirements.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure can provide stable, accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on developing stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide phase formation. The catalysts, synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, preserve atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. They exhibit excellent stability and selectivity to propylene, achieving near-thermodynamic conversion levels. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts show that increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and decreases carbon deposition, highlighting the importance of particle size and composition control for improved stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, which exhibits high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%, achieved 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction, addressing catalyst design and performance optimization challenges for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving anti-coking ability and propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in dehydrogenation catalyst design have led to the development of the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a 46% propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters on Al2O3 supports enriched with Al3+penta sites, which prevent agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles, enhancing stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, as demonstrated by their sinter-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites, boosting product desorption for high propene selectivity and formation rate in propane dehydrogenation. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in carbon monoxide oxidation. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has long used PtSn bimetallic catalysts on porous alumina, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene. To address this, Sn is added to form an alloy, diluting the Pt surface and breaking up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have explored using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower energy requirements and operation at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH processes. This synergy motivates the development of ODH for industrial use. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts, such as zeolites with exchanged cations, provide a platform for rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported Ni catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include alloying with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island formation and C accumulation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, further preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This design synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, with Pb blocking the three-fold Pt3 sites and Ca enriching the single-atom-like Pt1 site around the nanoparticles. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoating via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and selectivity by reducing sintering and coke formation. Non-stoichiometric PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds reduce coke and increase olefin selectivity. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and employing single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize strengthening metal-support interactions. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters and improves electronic interactions, as demonstrated by Lu et al. and Ma et al. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals like Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. They also tune acid-base properties, enhancing interaction between Pt and Sn. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and REEs form alloys, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which adjust electronic properties and enhance dispersion for stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are improved by forming oxide compounds, enhancing dispersion and stability under applied conditions. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent innovation, the boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst, demonstrates high efficiency and stability for propane dehydrogenation. This design minimizes platinum usage, addressing fabrication challenges, while maintaining high catalytic activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, supported by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet defects, optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts formed by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improves Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures are being explored to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds showing promising effects on the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, exceeding 66% conversion and 99% selectivity. This innovation avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The catalyst's design preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation show that increasing metal particle size enhances specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio reduces carbon deposition. These findings underscore the significance of controlling particle size and composition for improved stability and performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This design achieves 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined Co particles act as active sites, offering high catalytic ability and product selectivity, crucial for optimal performance in eco-friendly catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the strategic addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. This modification significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield, with an optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% achieving 90.8% selectivity and 36.5% yield. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the intimate interaction between Pt and Cu, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production. This unique bimetallic interaction is the primary driver of the enhancement, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or auxiliary hydrogen. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation by anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabrication with varied Al3+penta site levels disperses Pt-Sn clusters, boosting stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents cluster agglomeration during cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts for propane dehydrogenation, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt alloy catalysts, when applied to late transition metals, incorporate a large amount of the second metal, such as in the PtCo alloy, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The industrial propane dehydrogenation (PDH) process has used PtSn bimetallic catalysts for decades, but Pt alone rapidly deactivates due to coke deposition, leading to a loss of selectivity to propylene. The introduction of Sn forms an alloy that dilutes the Pt surface and breaks up coke-generating ensembles. Researchers have focused on using a siliceous MFI zeolite with a hierarchical micro-/mesoporous structure as a replacement for alumina support, which boosts catalytic performance by providing facile diffusion and high metal dispersion. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, lowering energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations compared to non-ODH and cracking [2]. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation [13]. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes [16]. This approach minimizes side reactions, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability [17]. Recent advancements, such as the use of porous copper-aluminum framework materials, show promise for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures [167], indicating a future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes [170].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking; PtB clusters anchored via a BO bond reduce coke formation and increase olefin selectivity. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and employing single-site metal precursors. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications by improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, as evidenced by the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on modifying supports, proven effective by stabilizing PtSn clusters and enhancing electronic interactions. Lu et al. and Ma et al. demonstrated this with PtSn/Al2O3 and Ga-added Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, respectively, showing improved stability in PDH. PtSn/CeO2 catalysts also highlight the importance of this approach. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework. This leads to excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates, selectivity, and stability during regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of various metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit superior performance with higher propylene selectivity and stability due to enhanced interaction between Pt and Sn, tuned acid-base properties, and optimized catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt-based catalysts, improving stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition to inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, like CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are optimized through the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster. This design minimizes platinum usage while maximizing catalytic activity for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), improving dispersion and electron transfer. Support modifications using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O enhance stability. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost performance. The aim is to achieve highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH. Challenges remain in understanding Pt-M-support relationships, necessitating efficient methods. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures provide accessible active sites, improving PDH. Hydrotalcite reconstruction impacts microstructure, enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the challenges of traditional catalysts that require hydrogen dilution to prevent carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation. The new catalyst preserves atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. It operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, the catalyst ensures the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. This catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies highlight that controlling the particle size and composition of supported metal catalysts, such as PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, significantly enhances catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. By increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio, specific activity for dehydrogenation is boosted while carbon deposition is reduced, improving stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst (0.5 wt% Co loading) demonstrates high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Small Co particles are active sites, while Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The enhanced performance and anti-coking ability are attributed to the PtCu bimetallic interaction, which inhibits propylene adsorption and elevates the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    