Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Recent advancements in strategies for enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes: Addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature ZnPt/HZ catalysts, with 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ as the optimal variant, achieving 46% propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, offering stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt, challenges traditional understanding and opens new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration, ensuring stability and regenerability, as demonstrated in propane dehydrogenation cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the synthesis of ultrafine bimetallic Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance, as evidenced by the zeolite's restriction enhancing regeneration stability, with the catalytic activity remaining unchanged after four consecutive cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight PtREE alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These nests enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The resultant Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles exhibit high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods. This strategy, when applied to late transition metals, produces Pt alloy catalysts with enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling operations at lower temperatures compared to non-ODH processes. This synergy motivates ODH's development for industrial use, though commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps, and to design selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Understanding the mechanisms of CH activation on different catalysts can guide the design of improved catalysts for C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature a novel double-decoration strategy using PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with a second metal to anchor Pt particles, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration and sintering. Encapsulation methods using highly siliceous chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats have proven effective in preventing Pt sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through the formation of compounds like Mg2PtO4 and PtOCe bonds, enhancing stability. Adding elements like Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and prevents sintering and coking. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster, anchored via a covalent BO bond, reduces coke formation and increases selectivity to olefins. Computational screening suggests Si can modify Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation have introduced synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key methods include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions (PtOCe bonds), encapsulating metals in zeolites for high stability, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies address catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization challenges, improving structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification. Lu et al. showcased improved PDH stability using PtSn/Al2O3, with strong metal-support interactions attributed to γ-Al2O3 nanosheets rich in pentacoordinate Al3+ ions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhanced Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions stabilizing PtSn clusters. This approach, also observed in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts, allows for tuning catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states, leading to excellent PDH performance and stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the effectiveness of In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These catalysts exhibit moderate coke deposition, maximize surface Pt species, and stabilize metallic Pt particles, significantly improving propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs are used to form alloys, improving stability and suppressing side reactions. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it effective, and alloying with promoters enhances stability. Metal oxides, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based catalysts, enhance dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. Introducing noble metals or metal oxides boosts performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing catalysts for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a Pt/Cu cluster catalyst on boron nitride nanosheets, which optimizes propane dehydrogenation by minimizing platinum usage and maximizing activity. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, enhances catalytic efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, which improve performance through enhanced dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on hydrotalcites. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with other oxides like ZnAl2O4 and ZSM-5 boosts stability and accessibility. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys significantly enhance PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structure offer more stable and accessible active sites, improving PDH reactions. The reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds optimizes microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles that operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the challenge of carbon buildup and alloy segregation, common in traditional catalysts. The benign interaction of these nanoparticles with the silica support prevents Pt-Sn segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The catalyst is synthesized from a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing is preserved during reduction and catalytic operation. This allows the catalyst to operate without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane and high selectivity to propylene, even under harsh conditions. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that adjusting the particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts in ethane dehydrogenation enhances stability and performance. Increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts activity and reduces carbon deposition, effectively tackling catalyst design and optimization challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which utilizes ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite. Prepared by Dzwigaj's technique followed by high-temperature calcination, this catalyst achieves high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. The small Co particles act as active sites, highlighting the importance of particle size in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Cu to enhance Pt/Al2O3 catalysts in propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieves high propylene selectivity and yield. The bimetallic interaction between Pt and Cu boosts performance and anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption, increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, and suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which combines 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This catalyst breaks traditional understanding, offering new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design and addressing fabrication challenges and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. This strategy, as demonstrated by Pt-Sn2/meso-Al2O3, is sinter-resistant and regenerable, with stability and regenerability significantly influenced by the Al3+penta site content. A high level of these sites effectively prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, significantly boosting stability and performance. The confined GaPt alloy enhances propene selectivity and formation rate, with notable activity retention after four cycles, showcasing improved regeneration stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. Traditionally, forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements is challenging due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth element oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with surface framework defects, known as silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with a higher chemical potential, allowing them to diffuse onto Pt and form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. These catalysts, when applied to late transition metals, result in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, these catalysts show high initial propane conversion and undergo extremely slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a key strategy, offering energy savings and lower operating temperatures than non-ODH methods. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design to synergize dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in designing efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, with high Pt dispersion on zeolite through ion-exchange, exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Research suggests copper-aluminum framework materials may enable propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, creating an ultra-stable catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures. This design synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, with Pb blocking Pt3 sites and Ca enriching Pt1 sites. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability at 600C, with no deactivation observed for up to 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3, MgAl2O4, and CeO2 to prevent migration and coalescence. Encapsulation of Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 through atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound and the PtOCe bond, respectively. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking by anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance, and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes emphasize innovative synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. Notably, the stabilization effect of Pt through strong bonds, the synthesis of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and the stabilization of metals through support interactions address fabrication challenges and optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include strengthening metal-support interactions through nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and support modification. Modification, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions or adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, stabilizes PtSn clusters and boosts electronic interactions. PtSn/Al2O3 and PtSn/CeO2 catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability, with PtSn/CeO2 showing unique stability. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta and subsequent metal impregnation, results in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states, leading to excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene formation rates and selectivity. These catalysts maintain stability during multiple cycles due to strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include using various metals as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, which improves redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit the best performance, featuring moderate coke deposition and maximizing surface Pt species, which promotes the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizes metallic Pt particles, achieving higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs. These promoters regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts, forming alloys or intermetallic compounds that improve central active components and inhibit deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, also see enhanced stability and dispersion of active species through the introduction of another metal oxide, which improves coordination and electronic state, enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent advancement in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst. This design, characterized by the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster bonded with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, boosts catalytic efficiency for dehydrogenation reactions. It minimizes platinum usage while maximizing activity, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on bimetallic Pt-based catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides, such as ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O, is also effective. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, particularly hydrotalcite-like compounds, provide more stable and accessible active sites, enhancing microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. Notably, it operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst exhibits near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene, showcasing its effectiveness. Additionally, the catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining over 97% of initial activity and over 99% of initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design highlight the improved stability and performance of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts in ethane dehydrogenation by controlling particle size and composition. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, emphasizing the importance of precise design for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, which features ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, inspired by Dzwigaj's method. This design offers high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The catalyst's high activity and selectivity, combined with Co's earth abundance, make it a promising low-cost, eco-friendly option for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the strategic addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. Optimized at 0.5 wt% Cu loading, this strategy boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu enhances catalytic performance and anti-coking ability, inhibiting propylene adsorption and suppressing coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst demonstrates high propylene yield and exceptional stability, attributed to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. Its composition, with more Zn and less Pt than conventional PtZn-based catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in direct dehydrogenation employ Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, preventing agglomeration and ensuring sinter-resistance and regenerability, critical for performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, tackling fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling the formation of stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). These nanoparticles significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh operating conditions, the Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on the degallated zeolite (PtLa/mz-deGa) showed a high initial propane conversion of 40% and underwent extremely slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction. This strategy opens up new opportunities for catalytic applications by allowing the discovery of various alloy catalysts with different compositions and structures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a key strategy. ODH combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH processes (Quote [2], [3], [5]). This energy efficiency motivates ODH's industrial development, though commercial success hinges on innovative catalyst and process design to ensure synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms are crucial for the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (Quote [134], [135], [136]). Notably, the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, supported by zeolite, achieves outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes due to high Pt dispersion and minimized side reactions from weaker Brnsted sites (Quote [139], [140], [141], [143], [144]). A recent study highlights a porous copper-aluminum framework material, activated by metal oxide, showing promise for propane dehydrogenation at 350°C, potentially outperforming PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts (Quote [166], [167]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. NiAu alloys make C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while NiSn alloys hinder CC bond formation and enhance CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, leading to an ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation at 600C. This catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, alloying Pt with second metals to anchor it, and using carriers like Al2O3 and CeO2 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Pt encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoats via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering through compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability and prevent sintering and coking, with B and Si modifying selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties of Pt.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on synthesis strategies. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, and encapsulating metals in zeolites. Specific examples include stabilizing Pt through strong PtOCe bonds, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts for high stability, and the formation of Sn single-sites in frameworks. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance, improving structural stability and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on strengthening metal-support interactions through support modification. Using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga3+ ions stabilizes PtSn clusters, enhancing electronic interactions and catalyst stability. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite and metal impregnation, exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability for PDH due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications, as demonstrated by the high propene formation rate and selectivity of Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce, In, La, Fe as promoters to improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals enhance Pt-Sn interaction and tune acid-base properties for better performance. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst showed optimal stability with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting reduction of surface Pt oxides, stabilizing metallic Pt particles, and enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. This addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance by suppressing side reactions, inhibiting coke deposition, and improving Pt atom dispersion. Pt-based catalysts benefit from metal promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, which form alloys to enhance central active components. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are improved by forming oxide compounds that modify the coordination and electronic state of host sites, enhancing stability. Introducing noble metals or metal oxides boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation, minimizing platinum use while maximizing activity. The unique geometry, maintained by strong copper-edge BO defect bonding, addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites, which improve dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying Al2O3 support with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxides, and utilizing single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure have shown benefits. PtCu single atom alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. These approaches aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for improved PDH performance. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures provides stable, accessible active sites, enhancing PDH reaction performance. Hydrotalcite-like compound reconstruction has shown promise in improving the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, addressing challenges in catalyst design and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts have led to silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, avoiding the need for hydrogen dilution. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of propane (&gt;66%) and &gt;99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% initial activity and &gt;99% selectivity after three cycles, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that modifying the metal particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts boosts catalytic stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing the metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, offering effective strategies for optimizing supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, which utilizes ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This ecofriendly catalyst, with earth-abundant Co, shows high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity after prereduction. CoOx species easily reduce to metallic Co under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing its performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading achieves 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. The Pt-Cu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppresses coke formation, and improves selectivity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a 46% propylene yield and remarkable stability over extended periods at high temperatures. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring the stable state of active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, more Zn-rich and Pt-lean, breaks traditional understanding and optimizes performance for stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored on Al3+penta sites in mesoporous Al2O3 supports, enhancing stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents Pt-Sn2 cluster agglomeration, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, boosting propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, as shown by consistent catalytic activity over four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These catalysts address the challenge of forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements by enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt. The resultant intermetallic compounds are stable, highly active, and selective for propane dehydrogenation, as demonstrated by their high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion even after extended periods of reaction. This preparation strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts outperform conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts, which suffer from severe coke formation and deactivation, by providing a durable and highly active alternative for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes leverage oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), combining endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation to enable reactions at lower temperatures than non-ODH or cracking (Quote [2]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation (Quote [14]). The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [24]). Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies (Quote [34]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation, which is consistent with experimental findings showing improved catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability. This design blocks three-fold Pt3 sites with Pb and enriches electron density around nanoparticles with Ca, creating a PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst. It exhibits outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing challenges in design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite layers and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation, with atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhancing stability. Additives like Ga, In, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' against these issues. Computational screening suggests Si can modify selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties of Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight innovative synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include stabilizing metals with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, and constructing well-defined surface metal species. Notably, Pt stabilization through strong PtOCe bonds, the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, and the stabilization of highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites by the ETS-2 support address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, notably effective for Pt-based catalysts. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability through strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, attributing the effect to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. The importance of support modification is also evident in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts were prepared using an improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination of H-beta zeolite and subsequent metal impregnation. Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states are incorporated into the framework of dealuminated beta (Si-beta), and Pt species are highly dispersed as ultra-small nanoclusters on Pt/Sn-Si-beta due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. These catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene selectivity and good stability due to inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce, In, and La as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalyst showed superior performance with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, promoting the reduction of surface Pt oxides and stabilizing metallic Pt particles, leading to higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction for Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition, enhancing stability and performance. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, have their stability enhanced through the introduction of another metal oxide, improving active species dispersion and modifying host metal oxide sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves using boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu clusters. This design reduces platinum usage, maximizes activity, and improves propane dehydrogenation efficiency, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, boosting activity and selectivity. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides, and utilizing single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure, have also shown promise in achieving highly dispersed and stable Pt catalysts for improved performance. PtCu single atom alloys enhance propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures, particularly the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds, provide more stable and accessible active sites, leading to superior PDH performance. These strategies address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, without hydrogen dilution. This catalyst preserves the atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with the silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. This approach addresses challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization by achieving near-thermodynamic conversion levels and selectivity without decreasing productivity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes involve adjusting the composition and particle size of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts. Increasing particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio improves specific activity, while decreasing size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio minimizes carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Its active sites are small metallic Co particles, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles address cracking and carbon deposition, optimizing performance and fabrication.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the strategic addition of copper to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, boosting propylene selectivity and yield for propane dehydrogenation. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, increases the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and cracking reactions, thus optimizing performance and addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, featuring 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves a 46% propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours at 525°C, thanks to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles. Its composition, with more Zn and less Pt, challenges conventional wisdom, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements utilize Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, preventing agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles, thus enhancing stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the synthesis of GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts, which boost product desorption, selectivity, and formation rate in propane dehydrogenation. The zeolite's restriction enhances regeneration stability, maintaining activity after four cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (PtREE) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. This novel approach enables rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The strategy also results in Pt alloy catalysts with a large amount of the second metal, such as PtCo, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, even under harsh operating conditions. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining significant conversion after extended periods of reaction, addressing the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include the use of oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures and reduced energy requirements compared to non-ODH processes. This energy intensification advantage makes ODH attractive for industrial applications, but commercial technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to ensure proper synergy between the dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the creation of a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes. The choice of Fe3+ as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3+ leads to weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbide phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by mitigating coke formation and enhancing catalyst robustness.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through geometric and electronic promotion. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density, leading to PtGaCaPb/SiO2's exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C with minimal deactivation over 1 month, addressing industrial challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating it with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on innovative synthesis strategies to enhance catalytic stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, and using single-site precursors for well-defined surface species. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include nanopore-encaged metals, wet-chemistry, and notably, support modification. Support modification, particularly the incorporation of pentacoordinate ions, has proven effective. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts exhibit high stability in PDH due to strong metal-support interactions. Adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhances Pt catalyst stability by dispersing and stabilizing PtSn clusters. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, results in high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include using promoter metals (Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca) in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts, which improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and coke resistance. Tuning acid-base properties with transition, alkaline, alkaline earth, and rare earth metals enhances Pt-Sn interaction, crucial for stability. In-promoted catalysts demonstrated optimal stability test performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on regulating active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts through promoters. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability and performance by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, see improved stability and dispersion through the introduction of another metal oxide. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy uses boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters, enhancing propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability. This innovation minimizes platinum usage and optimizes catalytic activity, addressing fabrication challenges and making it suitable for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) that enhance Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, improves dispersion. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost propane conversion and propene selectivity. Hierarchical structures provide stable, accessible active sites, enhancing PDH performance. Challenges remain in understanding Pt-M-support relationships, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, eliminating the need for hydrogen dilution and increasing productivity. The catalyst's synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide formation. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieves near-thermodynamic conversion of over 66% and over 99% selectivity to propylene. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and over 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in dehydrogenation processes involve controlling particle size and composition in PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for ethane dehydrogenation, minimizes carbon deposition, and addresses fabrication challenges and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols for high PDH activity and selectivity. CoOx species readily reduce to active Co particles under H2 or reactant gas. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst, after optimal prereduction, achieved 72% propane conversion with 92% propylene selectivity, demonstrating the importance of particle size in catalyst design. Small Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the strategic addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. Optimizing Cu loading to 0.5 wt% significantly improves propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu bimetallic interaction enhances stability and anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption, elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, and suppressing coke formation and methane production, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, a ZnPt-based composition supported on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn, achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its performance is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalyst design, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts feature Pt-Sn clusters anchored at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports, which disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters. High Al3+penta site content prevents agglomeration of Pt-Sn2 clusters into large Pt nanoparticles during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, enhancing stability and regenerability, as demonstrated by recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and catalytic stability. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after multiple cycles, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests. These zeolites enable the rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating their diffusion onto Pt to form stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite showed a high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion even after 30 days of reaction, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes (Quote [2], [3], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, specifically the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms provide a platform for the rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote [140], [141], [143], [144]). Despite progress, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies (Quote [166]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing catalyst deactivation due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys with Pt to anchor it on the carrier surface, and using carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Pt can be encapsulated in chabazite or coated with Al2O3 to resist sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Additives like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co, B, and Si improve stability by preventing sintering and coking. Boration reduces olefin binding energy and coke precursor tendency. Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation emphasize synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and anchoring active metals. Specific strategies, like strong PtOCe bonds and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts, demonstrate high stability, addressing design and performance challenges for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include support modification, which is particularly effective. Lu et al. developed a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. found that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH, likely due to pentacoordinate Ga3+ ions enhancing electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for PDH. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts showed excellent catalytic performance, with a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 at 550 C and >99% selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibited coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include using Ce, In, and La as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters notably improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, the In-promoted catalyst exhibits moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, which enhances propylene selectivity and stability, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include the introduction of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving central active components and inhibiting deactivation. These promoters enhance stability in Pt-based catalysts by modifying electronic properties and dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based, are improved by forming oxide compounds, enhancing dispersion and stability. The introduction of noble metals or metal oxides boosts catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent innovation in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involves a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst, which minimizes platinum usage and maximizes catalytic activity. This design addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications, as demonstrated by improved catalytic efficiency for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for Pt-based catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) that boost Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, and Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys improve propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Hierarchical microstructure and porous supports provide stable, accessible active sites, as shown by the superior PDH performance of hydrotalcite-like compounds with a 3D oxide nanosheet array. Challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship persist, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a silica-supported Pt1Sn1 nanoparticle catalyst for direct dehydrogenation, achieving thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. Synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn complex, it ensures atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing Pt-Sn segregation. Notably, it operates without hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity by avoiding thermodynamic limit decreases on propane conversion. Under reaction conditions, the catalyst achieved >66% conversion and >99% selectivity to propylene. It can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for dehydrogenation focus on controlling particle size and composition, exemplified by PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O, which boosts activity and reduces carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Inspired by Co's earth abundance, this design offers a cost-effective, eco-friendly solution for PDH, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% significantly enhances propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance by improving anti-coking ability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation processes have seen the development of ZnPt/HZ catalysts, notably 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ, which achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability. Its stability is due to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. High Al3+penta site content prevents cluster agglomeration, crucial for stability and regenerability in dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites (GaPt@S-1) for propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. The confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters enhance propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density, improving product desorption. The zeolite's restriction maintains catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, demonstrating enhanced regeneration stability and addressing catalyst design challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests to enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt. This results in stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhance PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles on degallated zeolite retain 8% propane conversion after 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts, prepared by co-impregnation and heating under O2 and H2, exhibit high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps. Insights into CH activation mechanisms aid in the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieves high metal dispersion and weaker acidity, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Understanding CH activation mechanisms on different catalysts guides the design of improved catalysts for lower temperature C2 and C3 alkane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature a double-decoration strategy using PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability in direct dehydrogenation. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, and Ca enriches electron density, creating a stable Pt1 site. PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing catalyst design and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion through ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt on the carrier surface, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 to prevent migration. Encapsulation in materials like MgAl2O4 spinel or highly siliceous chabazite, and Al2O3 coating through atomic layer deposition, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation, and atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 enhances stability. Adding metals like Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B anchoring PtB clusters via a covalent BO bond, increasing sintering resistance and reducing coke formation. Computational screening predicts Si modifies the selectivity of the Pt catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong PtOCe bonds, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, using single-site metal precursors, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization. Zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, as reported in recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, notably by Lu et al. with a PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst achieving high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. demonstrated that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites significantly boosts Pt catalyst stability in PDH, highlighting the role of electronic interactions. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and subsequent metal impregnation, resulted in highly stable catalysts for PDH, with a propene formation rate of 2.3 mol g1Pt h1 and >99% selectivity at 550 C, increasing to 3.1 mol g1Pt h1 at 600 C. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during four cycles at 550 C.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using Ce and In as promoters in Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts. These promoters improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition, crucial for stability. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on the strategic use of promoters in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters, including Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs, form alloys or intermetallic compounds, effectively suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. These strategies stabilize active compounds, crucial for addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. Pt's high affinity for paraffinic CH bonds makes it an effective catalyst for dehydrogenation, and alloying it with promoters significantly improves stability. Similarly, forming oxide compounds with metal oxides (CoOx, ZnOx, VOx, CrOx) enhances dispersion and stability, further boosting catalytic performance. These advancements have been developed to overcome the plights in catalyst fabrication and to optimize the catalyst performance in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A Pt/Cu cluster catalyst on boron nitride nanosheets demonstrates high efficiency and stability in propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges by minimizing platinum usage while maximizing activity through its unique geometry maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edges, optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for Pt-based catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu) that improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement of Al2O3 with other oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved PDH activity. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure provides more stable and accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds, which enhances microstructure and morphology, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have led to the development of silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, achieved by preserving the atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and the formation of tin oxide phases, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalyst can operate without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding the decrease in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. Synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring that the interaction between Pt and Sn is retained during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst features atomically mixed Pt-Sn precursors, very small intermetallic PtSn nanoparticles upon reduction, and a benign interaction with the silica support that avoids segregation and the formation of a tin oxide phase. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst showed near-thermodynamic conversion of >66% and >99% selectivity to propylene. Regeneration studies showed that the catalysts can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of the initial activity and >99% of the initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling the size and composition of supported metal catalysts like PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, which features ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite. This catalyst achieves a propane conversion rate of 72% and a propylene selectivity of around 92%, with a Co loading of 0.5 wt%. The earth abundance of Co suggests its long-term utility for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 90.8% propylene selectivity and 36.5% yield. The addition of 0.5 wt% Cu boosts anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption, reducing coke formation, and suppressing cracking reactions. The PtCu bimetallic interaction raises the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, minimizing methane formation and optimizing performance, addressing fabrication challenges and enhancing stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving high propylene yield and stability. Its stability is attributed to Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and optimizes performance for stable dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters on Al3+penta sites of Al2O3 supports. Varying Al3+penta site levels disperse Pt-Sn2 clusters, with high site content preventing agglomeration and boosting stability and regenerability during cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing product desorption and propene selectivity due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, with catalytic activity unchanged after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address fabrication challenges by enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. This strategy also produces Pt alloy catalysts with late transition metals, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, with high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation over 30 days. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts exhibit superior performance, opening new opportunities for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, allowing for lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes (Quote [2], [3], [5]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms can guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation. Zeolites, as supports, achieve high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites, as demonstrated by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, which exhibits outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes (Quote [140], [141]). New materials, such as porous copper-aluminum frameworks, show potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, indicating a promising future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes (Quote [166], [170]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C atom adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island formation. Sub-surface boron blocks sites for carbidic phase formation and destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C atom accumulation. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by reducing catalyst deactivation due to coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing catalytic stability. Pb blocks Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches Pt1 sites, creating the ultra-stable PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation. This catalyst exhibits outstanding stability at 600C, with minimal deactivation over a month, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 with strong Pt interaction to prevent migration. Encapsulation methods, such as loading Pt into MgAlOx hydrotalcite spaces and coating with Al2O3, prevent sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds, reducing coke formation and increasing olefin selectivity. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight strategies for enhanced stability and performance. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and transforming zeolite structures. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts enhance stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification. PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts, developed by Lu et al., exhibit high stability due to strong metal-support interactions. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability in PDH by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions. Support modification is crucial for PtSn/CeO2 catalysts. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH were prepared by dealumination of H-beta zeolite, showing excellent catalytic performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability and regeneration. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include using Ce, In, La, and Fe as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted catalysts exhibit superior performance with moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds with Pt, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt's effectiveness for alkane dehydrogenation is enhanced by adjusting electronic properties and improving dispersion. Metal oxide-based catalysts benefit from the addition of another metal oxide to form compounds that enhance dispersion and stability by modifying coordination and electronic states. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy employs a boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, demonstrating high efficiency and stability. The unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, maintained by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet edge BO defects, significantly boosts catalytic efficiency while minimizing platinum usage, addressing challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts like PtIn and PtGa, which boost activity and selectivity by improving Pt dispersion and electron transfer. Support modification with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacement with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxides, also enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structures aims to provide more stable and accessible active sites, with hydrotalcite reconstruction showing promise in improving microstructure and morphology for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing stability and selectivity to propylene. This catalyst preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, avoiding Pt-Sn segregation and tin oxide formation due to benign interaction with the silica support. The synthesis begins with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, ensuring the retention of Pt-Sn interaction during reduction and the PDH reaction. The catalyst shows near-thermodynamic conversion of propane to propylene (>66%) and >99% selectivity, without the need for hydrogen addition, which increases productivity. Under harsh conditions, the catalyst maintains propane conversion rates, and TEM images confirm the well-dispersed Pt-Sn nanoparticles. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, retaining >99% of initial selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles. This approach addresses fabrication challenges and optimizes performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies show that controlling particle size and composition of PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts enhances their stability and performance in ethane dehydrogenation. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity and reduces carbon deposition, offering effective strategies for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, which features ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method, followed by high-temperature calcination and prereduction, this catalyst achieves high performance. Confined small metallic Co particles act as active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, impacting the catalyst's stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include Cu-enhanced Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu interaction inhibits propylene adsorption, raising the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, which suppresses coke formation and methane production, improving anti-coking ability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, composed of 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite. This catalyst achieves high propylene yields and exceptional stability over 65 hours at high temperatures without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. The interaction between Pt and Zn ensures stable active species and strong carbon resistance, contributing to the catalyst's remarkable stability. This composition, with more Zn and less Pt than traditional PtZn catalysts, challenges conventional understanding and offers new avenues for designing stable dehydrogenation catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation use Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3, preventing agglomeration and ensuring regenerability. High Al3+penta site content maintains Pt-Sn cluster dispersion, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of Ga-Pt nanocatalysts (GaPt@S-1) encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate due to high electron density. The zeolite's restriction improves regeneration stability, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites, as demonstrated by the formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles. These intermetallic compounds exhibit high stability, activity, and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenge of low chemical potential in rare-earth element oxides. The Pt alloy catalysts, such as PtCo, show high catalytic activity and selectivity in the preferential oxidation of carbon monoxide in hydrogen. The PtREE/zeolite catalysts retain high propane conversion rates and undergo slow deactivation, even after 30 days of reaction under harsh operating conditions. This novel approach opens up new opportunities for catalytic applications by allowing the discovery of various alloy catalysts with different compositions and structures.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as a key strategy for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes. ODH couples endothermic dehydrogenation with exothermic oxidation, enabling lower reaction temperatures compared to non-ODH and cracking processes (Quote [2], [5], [6]). Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, requiring synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion steps (Quote [7]). Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts. The use of zeolites as supports, exemplified by the Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, with weaker acidity minimizing side reactions (Quotes [134]-[144]). Research on porous copper-aluminum framework materials suggests potential for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures, highlighting the role of surface oxygen species and the redox property of the metal center in catalysis (Quotes [166]-[172]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less favorable thermodynamically, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C centers as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron block step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent catalyst design advancements for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, enhancing stability through synergized geometric and electronic effects [3]. Pb blocks three-fold Pt3 sites, while Ca enriches electron density around nanoparticles, creating a stable Pt1 site [4]. The PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with minimal deactivation over 1 month [1,5], addressing fabrication and performance challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using Al2O3 and CeO2 for strong interaction. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 coating prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formations. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also prevents sintering. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability. B and Si prevent sintering and coking, with B acting as a 'magic bullet' by anchoring PtB clusters and reducing coke formation, while Si modifies selectivity by changing electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, and using single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. For instance, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, and zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on support modification, nanopore-encaged metals, and wet-chemistry approaches. Modification of supports, such as using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets with pentacoordinate Al3+ ions, stabilizes PtSn clusters, as demonstrated by Lu et al.'s PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for PDH, which showed high activity, selectivity, and stability. Ma et al. improved Pt catalyst stability by adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites, enhancing electronic interactions between Pt and Ga. These strategies, also observed in PtSn/CeO2 catalysts, enable tuning of catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability in bimetallic systems. The development of highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts using an improved post-synthesis strategy resulted in excellent catalytic performance for PDH, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring good stability during dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using various metals as promoters to improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts showed superior stability with moderate coke deposition and a high level of surface Pt species, achieving higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on introducing promoters to regulate active compounds in Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys or intermetallic compounds, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are optimized by forming oxide compounds to enhance stability under applied conditions. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst boosts propane dehydrogenation efficiency and stability, addressing platinum usage and catalytic activity challenges. Its unique geometry, maintained by strong bonding with edge BO defects on h-BN nanosheets, optimizes performance for industrial applications by minimizing expensive platinum requirements.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include bimetallic catalysts with promoters like Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improve Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as seen in PtIn and PtGa NPs on calcined hydrotalcites. Modifying Al2O3 support with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or using alternative oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O enhances performance. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have shown improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. These strategies aim to create highly dispersed Pt catalysts for better PDH performance, addressing challenges in understanding the Pt-M-support relationship. Exploring hierarchical morphology and porous structure can provide stable, accessible active sites, as demonstrated by the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds for superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have focused on stable and selective silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles. These catalysts operate at thermodynamic limits without hydrogen dilution, enhancing productivity. The benign interaction of the nanoparticles with the silica support prevents segregation and tin oxide phase formation, addressing fabrication challenges. The catalysts, synthesized with a heterometallic Pt-Sn coordination complex, preserve atomic mixing during reduction and catalytic operation, optimizing performance. They exhibit excellent stability and selectivity to propylene, achieving near-thermodynamic conversion levels. The Pt1Sn1/SiO2 catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining high activity and selectivity after multiple PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts reveal that enlarging metal particle size and increasing the Sn/Pt ratio enhances specific activity and minimizes carbon deposition, crucial for improved stability and performance in dehydrogenation processes, effectively tackling fabrication challenges and optimizing industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the CoSiBeta catalyst, with ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% boosts propylene selectivity to 90.8% and yield to 36.5%. The intimate interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, increasing the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, which suppresses coke formation and cracking reactions towards lighter hydrocarbons, improving anti-coking ability and propylene selectivity while suppressing methane formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements feature the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, with 1000 ppm Pt and 10 wt% Zn on high-silica HZSM-5 zeolite, achieving a 46% propylene yield and outstanding stability over 65 hours without regeneration or H2 auxiliary gas. Its stability is due to Lewis acidic sites and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in direct dehydrogenation catalysts involve Pt-Sn clusters on Al2O3 supports enriched with Al3+penta sites, which prevent agglomeration into large Pt nanoparticles, enhancing stability and regenerability during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles, as demonstrated by their sinter-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements include the synthesis of ultrafine Ga-Pt nanocatalysts encapsulated in S-1 zeolites, which boosts product desorption for high propene selectivity and formation rate in propane dehydrogenation, enhancing regeneration stability for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the use of rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts address fabrication challenges by utilizing zeolites with silanol nests, which enable rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active, and selective intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on degallated zeolite significantly enhance PDH performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability, as shown by high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days under harsh conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in alkane dehydrogenation processes leverage oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines endothermic dehydrogenation and exothermic oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower operation temperatures compared to non-ODH methods. This synergy makes ODH attractive for industrial use, but commercial technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design to optimize the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion. Insights into CH activation mechanisms on catalysts, such as zeolites with exchanged cations, provide a platform for rational design of efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Zeolites, particularly Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, achieve high metal dispersion and weaker Brnsted sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite advancements, gaps remain between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation of ODH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported Ni catalysts for direct dehydrogenation include alloying with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron can occupy step sites, preventing graphene island formation and C accumulation. Sub-surface boron in Ni(111) destabilizes on-surface C centers, further preventing C accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca. This design synergizes geometric and electronic promotion effects, with Pb blocking the three-fold Pt3 sites and Ca enriching the single-atom-like Pt1 site around the nanoparticles. The resulting PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibits outstanding stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over a month, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion via ion exchange and impregnation, forming alloys to anchor Pt on carriers, and using Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulation in chabazite or Al2O3 overcoating via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 resist sintering due to specific compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, B, and Si to Pt catalysts improves stability and selectivity by reducing sintering and coke formation. Non-stoichiometric PtB clusters anchored via covalent bonds reduce coke and increase olefin selectivity. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation highlight novel synthesis strategies to enhance stability. Key approaches include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites with strong support interactions, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and employing single-site metal precursors. These strategies improve structural stability, anti-coking ability, and catalytic activity. Notably, strong PtOCe bonds stabilize Pt, zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts exhibit high stability, and the ETS-2 support stabilizes highly dispersed bimetallic PtZn sites, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance the stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on strengthening metal-support interactions. Modification of supports, as demonstrated by Lu et al. and Ma et al., stabilizes PtSn clusters using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets and Ga3+ ions, improving electronic interactions. Highly stable Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, developed through an improved post-synthesis strategy, exhibit excellent catalytic performance for PDH with high propene selectivity. The strong PtSn interactions and confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring good stability and catalytic activity during multiple cycles. These advancements address challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involve using metals like Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, Ca as promoters, which improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. These metals also tune acid-base properties, enhancing interaction between Pt and Sn. Notably, In-promoted catalysts showed the best performance, featuring moderate coke deposition and maximum surface Pt species, promoting higher propylene selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, and REEs form alloys, improving stability by suppressing side reactions and inhibiting coke deposition. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from these promoters, which adjust electronic properties and enhance dispersion for stability. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx, are improved by forming oxide compounds, enhancing dispersion and stability under applied conditions. Noble metals and appropriate metal oxides significantly boost catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent innovation, the boron nitride nanosheet-supported Pt/Cu cluster catalyst, optimizes propane dehydrogenation with high efficiency and stability. This design minimizes platinum usage, addressing fabrication challenges, while the unique geometry of the Pt/Cu cluster, supported by strong bonding with h-BN nanosheet defects, ensures high catalytic activity for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the formation of bimetallic catalysts by doping Pt with Sn, In, Ga, and Cu, which improves Pt dispersion and electron transfer, as demonstrated by the enhanced performance of PtIn and PtGa NPs supported on calcined hydrotalcites. Modifying supports with ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with other oxides like ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O oxide has also shown promise. Single atom sites of Pt on a sandwich structure and PtCu single atom alloys have improved propane conversion and propene selectivity. Exploring hierarchical structures provides more stable and accessible active sites, with the reconstruction of hydrotalcite-like compounds showing promising effects on the microstructure and morphology of 3D oxide nanosheet array catalysts, leading to superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin (Pt1Sn1) nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene, exceeding 66% conversion and 99% selectivity. This innovation avoids the need for hydrogen dilution, increasing productivity. The catalyst's design preserves atomic mixing of Pt and Sn during reduction and catalytic operation, and the benign interaction with silica support prevents segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. The catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and 99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent studies on PtxSn100x/Mg(Al)O catalysts for ethane dehydrogenation reveal that increasing metal particle size boosts specific activity, while a higher Sn/Pt ratio minimizes carbon deposition, emphasizing the importance of controlling particle size and composition for enhanced stability and performance, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the CoSiBeta catalyst, which features ultrasmall Co particles confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance. This design achieves high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, making it crucial for eco-friendly catalyst design with high catalytic ability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the strategic addition of Cu to Pt/Al2O3 catalysts, which significantly boosts propylene selectivity and yield. An optimized Cu loading of 0.5 wt% achieves 90.8% selectivity and 36.5% yield. The bimetallic interaction between Pt and Cu inhibits propylene adsorption, elevates the energy barrier for CC bond rupture, suppressing coke formation and methane production. This unique interaction is the primary driver of the enhancement, addressing challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation processes include the 10Zn0.1Pt/HZ catalyst, which achieves high propylene yield and exceptional stability over 65 hours without regeneration or auxiliary hydrogen. Its stability is attributed to the cooperative work of Lewis acidic sites from framework Zn species and small-sized PtZn particles, ensuring stable active species and strong carbon resistance. This design, with more Zn and less Pt than previous catalysts, challenges traditional understanding and offers new avenues for stable dehydrogenation catalysts, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY00237E"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies for enhancing catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation involve anchoring Pt-Sn clusters at Al3+penta sites on mesoporous Al2O3 supports. Fabrication with varied Al3+penta site levels disperses Pt-Sn clusters, boosting stability and regenerability. High Al3+penta site content prevents cluster agglomeration during cycles, optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.06.002"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes feature GaPt@S-1 nanocatalysts, where confined GaPt alloy nanoclusters in silicalite-1 zeolites act as active sites, enhancing propene selectivity and formation rate. The zeolite's restriction boosts regeneration stability, maintaining unchanged catalytic activity after four cycles, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.02.129"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes involve using rare-earth-platinum (Pt) alloy nanoparticles supported on mesoporous zeolites. These catalysts, typically prepared by reducing metal precursors under hydrogen at high temperatures, face challenges in forming Pt alloys with rare-earth elements due to the low chemical potential of rare-earth oxides. A novel approach uses mesoporous zeolites with silanol nests, enabling rare-earth elements to exist as single atomic species with higher chemical potential, facilitating diffusion onto Pt and forming stable, highly active intermetallic compounds for propane dehydrogenation. The Pt alloy catalysts, when applied to late transition metals, incorporate a large amount of the second metal, such as in the PtCo alloy, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity. The formation of Pt3La and Pt3Y nanoparticles on the degallated zeolite significantly enhances PDH catalytic performance, including activity, selectivity, and durability. Under harsh conditions, conventional PtSn/alumina catalysts experience severe deactivation, whereas Pt3La intermetallic nanoparticles supported on degallated zeolite show high initial propane conversion and slow deactivation, retaining 8% conversion after 30 days.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-020-2671-4"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in dehydrogenation processes include oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which combines dehydrogenation and oxidation, reducing energy requirements and enabling lower temperature operations [2]. Commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst design, focusing on the synergy between dehydrogenation and hydrogen combustion [7]. Insights into CH activation mechanisms guide the rational design of efficient catalysts for lower alkane dehydrogenation [13]. The Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst, supported by zeolites, achieves high metal dispersion and stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes, minimizing side reactions and enhancing alkene selectivity [16]. Recent advancements, such as the use of porous copper-aluminum framework materials, show promise for achieving propane dehydrogenation at lower temperatures [167], indicating a future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuproc.2016.04.016"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation processes include alloying Ni with Au or Sn to prevent carbon accumulation and coke formation. Alloying with Au makes C adsorption less thermodynamically favorable, while Sn hinders CC bond formation and enhances CO bond formation, removing surface C as CO. Additives like potassium, sulfur, gold, or boron occupy step sites, preventing graphene island growth. Boron also blocks sub-surface sites, preventing carbidic phase formation, and destabilizes on-surface C centers, aiding in C atom removal. These advancements address fabrication challenges and optimize performance by mitigating coking and enhancing catalyst robustness.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5SC01227A"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes feature the double-decoration of PtGa intermetallics with Pb and Ca, significantly enhancing stability. This design, exemplified by the PtGaCaPb/SiO2 catalyst, demonstrates exceptional stability in propane dehydrogenation at 600C, with negligible deactivation over 1 month, addressing key challenges in catalyst design and performance optimization for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.202107210"},
{"DOC": "Recent strategies to enhance catalytic stability in direct dehydrogenation include optimizing Pt dispersion on carriers via ion exchange and impregnation, using additives to form alloys that anchor Pt, and selecting carriers like Al2O3 and MgAl2O4 spinel to prevent migration. Encapsulating Pt in chabazite or coating with Al2O3 via atomic layer deposition prevents sintering. Pt/MgO and Pt/CeO2 prevent sintering due to compound formation. Atomically dispersed Pt on CeO2 also enhances stability. Adding Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts improves stability similarly to Sn. B and Si prevent sintering and coking; PtB clusters anchored via a BO bond reduce coke formation and increase olefin selectivity. Computational screening suggests Si modifies Pt catalyst selectivity by altering electronic and geometric properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced novel synthesis strategies. These include controlling metal particle size, preparing tailored bimetallic nanoparticles, stabilizing metal sites through strong interactions with supports, encapsulating metals in zeolites to prevent sintering, maintaining porous texture and anchoring active metals, preparing uniform bimetal nanoparticles, and employing single-site metal precursors. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance for industrial applications, as evidenced by the stabilization of Pt through strong PtOCe bonds and the high stability of zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on modifying supports to stabilize PtSn clusters and enhance electronic interactions. Lu et al. demonstrated improved stability in PDH with PtSn/Al2O3, attributing it to strong interactions between metals and γ-Al2O3 nanosheets. Ma et al. showed that adding Ga to Mg(Al)O layer double hydrotalcites enhanced Pt catalyst stability. An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, resulted in highly dispersed Pt nanoclusters and Sn species incorporated into the Si-beta framework, leading to excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates, selectivity, and stability during regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation include using metals like Ce, In, La, Fe, Zn, Na, K, Mg, and Ca as promoters. These metals improve redox properties, antisintering ability, and resistance to coke deposition. Notably, In-promoted Pt/Sn-SBA-15 catalysts exhibit superior performance with higher propylene selectivity and stability due to enhanced interaction between Pt and Sn, tuned acid-base properties, and optimized catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation focus on promoter introduction. Promoters like Sn, Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Co, and REEs form alloys with Pt-based catalysts, improving stability and performance. Pt-based catalysts, effective for alkane dehydrogenation, benefit from promoter addition to inhibit deactivation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CoOx-, ZnOx-, VOx-, and CrOx-based systems, are optimized through the introduction of another metal oxide, enhancing dispersion and stability. These strategies address fabrication challenges and optimize performance in industrial applications, as evidenced by the successful implementation of PtGa catalyst systems in production plants.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00103_2"},
{"DOC": "A recent strategy for enhancing catalytic stability in supported metal catalysts for direct dehydrogenation involves using boron nitride nanosheets to support Pt/Cu clusters, minimizing platinum usage and maximizing activity for propane dehydrogenation, effectively addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY02313E"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability for direct dehydrogenation focus on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with promoters (Sn, In, Ga, Cu), improving dispersion and electron transfer. Support modifications using ZnO, La2O3, TiO2, or replacing Al2O3 with ZnAl2O4, ZSM-5, or Mg(Al)O enhance stability and performance. Single atom Pt sites on a sandwich structure and PtCu alloys boost PDH performance. Hierarchical morphology and porous structures provide accessible active sites, improving PDH. Challenges in understanding Pt-M-support relationships persist, necessitating further research.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9090767"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in catalyst design for direct dehydrogenation processes have introduced silica-supported platinum-tin nanoparticles, which operate at thermodynamic limits with high stability and selectivity to propylene. This addresses the challenges of traditional catalysts that require hydrogen dilution to prevent carbon buildup and excess tin to avoid alloy segregation. The new catalyst preserves atomic mixing of platinum and tin during reduction and catalytic operation, preventing segregation and formation of tin oxide phases. It operates without hydrogen addition, increasing productivity by avoiding decreases in thermodynamic limits on propane conversion. This catalyst can be partially regenerated, maintaining 97% of initial activity and >99% selectivity after three PDH/regeneration cycles.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.abg7894"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements in enhancing catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes focus on controlling particle size and composition, such as adjusting the Sn/Pt ratio. Increasing metal particle size and the Sn/Pt ratio boosts specific activity for dehydrogenation, reduces carbon deposition, and optimizes performance, addressing fabrication challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2013.11.017"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the CoSiBeta catalyst, featuring ultrasmall Co particles in dealuminated Beta zeolite silanols, which achieves high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Prepared by Dzwigaj's method and high-temperature calcination, the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. Small Co particles act as active sites, while Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition, addressing fabrication challenges and optimizing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "Recent advancements highlight the promotional effect of Cu on Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, with an optimized 0.5 wt% Cu loading boosting propylene selectivity and yield. The PtCu bimetallic interaction enhances performance and anti-coking ability by inhibiting propylene adsorption and elevating the energy barrier for CC bond cleavage, suppressing coke formation and methane production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4NR02143F"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    