Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and expanded to polycrystalline Pt to assess kinetic barriers for segregation. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Oxygen binding energy differences for Pt3d systems are significant. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) preference in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantify activation barriers. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. Linear trends show d-band center correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Simulation outcomes revealed that Pd segregates to the outer layers, enhancing Pt concentration towards the core, with a preference for Pd to occupy (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle surface. These phenomena have direct implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, with a (111)-oriented facet, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer develops due to increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement at the surface, shielding the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This protective mechanism enhances the alloy's catalytic properties and performance in fuel cell applications. Ongoing research is exploring the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the enhancement of Pt's electrocatalytic activity by alloying with Fe, achieving a 25-fold increase at 50% Fe content, crucial for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for stability and catalytic properties. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation enhances catalytic activity, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with ORR rates four times higher than pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly alter surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. This stability enhancement, observed under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and leading to improved catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. These changes affect catalytic activity and selectivity. Stepwise annealing of submonolayer Pt-covered Ru(0001) surfaces to form equilibrated PtxRu1-x/Ru(0001) monolayer surface alloys reveals that surface structure and composition influence adsorption properties, particularly for CO and D adsorption, due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition demonstrates the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, influences properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic properties. Studies on Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) reveal 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature, which alloy extensively at elevated temperatures, starting at the perimeter by AgPt exchange. This nanophasic AgPt alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalysts' performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. These Pt-skin surfaces also show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), especially those in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. NSAs can bind atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. The stability of NSAs can be assessed by considering their composition in vacuum and the effects of hydrogen adsorption. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the difference in hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and host. NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and potentially easier hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation in Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by relative surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with metals that promote Pt segregation leads to stronger surface concentration, while those that suppress it can prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, such as Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (1). Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability (8). Among various Pt2M alloys, molybdenum (Mo) stands out as it forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (9). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation barrier as a key parameter for OR activity (10). Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimal Mo content of 30% (20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at elevated CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, affecting oxygen-induced segregation. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, influencing catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit complex surface structures crucial for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamically changes during reactions, influenced by redox potential, allowing tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate surface segregation and structural dynamics. Reductive conditions favor 3d transition metals (TMs) in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This impacts catalytic properties, as Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation, while hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases, contribute to structural dynamics. These findings are crucial for understanding real catalytic processes involving Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces affect catalytic properties in various applications, including oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Fe-Pt structures with metallic or oxidized states in the topmost or subsurface regions can result from different preparation methods and reaction conditions. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding of stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal for catalysis, impacting properties like permeation and surface adsorption. It significantly boosts catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in unusual catalytic activity has spurred extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can alter surface segregation trends and composition, underscoring the importance of studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption for a comprehensive understanding of their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original surface alloy composition of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) was almost fully restored, indicating complete surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. The stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. These phenomena significantly influence catalytic activity, as atomic arrangement in the surface layers is critical. Understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects is paramount for optimizing catalytic alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy compared to Pt makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain on the surface when deposited on Pt, and their immiscibility at high Au compositions supports this. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to the surface to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors significantly impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic properties in heterogeneous and electrocatalysis applications. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant, PtTiPt most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends are predicted from DFT and verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, correlating thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in different environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability trends predict subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a Pt concentration gradient towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to the (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Under specific conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in a 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that enhances corrosion resistance. This has implications for fuel cell applications, with ongoing studies exploring the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening. The literature lacks specifics on thermodynamic influences on bimetallic catalysts' stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based alloys, and their catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, significantly boosts stability and catalytic efficiency. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co's, which is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies reveal that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation is crucial for understanding Pt-based alloys, with modern techniques identifying segregation trends and characterizing surface and subsurface components. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both clean and under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation affects the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure changes, observable by STM, influence adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have concentrated on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partly replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced by modifying their chemical composition. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length of alloy systems. For Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the surface bond length deviation after Pt segregation is minimal, indicating that the electronic structure, not geometry, is the primary factor for enhanced ORR activities. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studying Ag on a Pt(1 0 0) surface reveals that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands form with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Upon annealing above 600 K, extensive alloying occurs, starting at the perimeter of the Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies show mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that these factors influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing new NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects, induced by the doped element, collectively influence Pt segregation. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by its surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Stronger Pt segregation is observed when Ni is replaced by V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent Pt surface segregation entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions significantly influences alloy stability, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. In the presence of O atoms, Pt removal is facilitated as O atoms stabilize surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Surface vacancies expose second layer atoms, enabling stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Molybdenum (Mo) is identified as a stabilizing element for Pt alloys at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation for OR activity. The stability hierarchy follows Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, influencing catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity. The crystal plane's effect on subsurface stability and ORR activity is significant for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, featuring Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface, demonstrate exceptional catalytic activity. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by the redox potential of reaction gases, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), guiding admetal surface segregation or subsurface retention. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO), 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, particularly PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common, driven by strain release. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the segregation process. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes in Pt-based catalysts are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation-reduction cycles, influence catalytic performance in various applications. Preparation methods and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding of structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Reaction conditions and adsorbates can alter surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. For instance, Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys showed four times higher ORR activity than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of studying surface segregation trends under adsorbates for understanding catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original alloy composition was nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, except for a slight Pt loss. The stability variance may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) substrate favors surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying, suggests a probability for subsurface dissolution of Pt (Pd) estimated by a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, inducing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at high Au compositions (>17%) favor Au's surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in surfacing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These insights elucidate the catalytic performance of bimetallic systems in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various conditions is critical for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation. Predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, PtTiPt most susceptible. Stability trends are confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Oxygen binding energy differences suggest optimal binding properties may halt or prevent reactions. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify segregation and quantify activation barriers. AES results suggest two segregation regions, bridging the materials gap. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher in Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the surface and increasing Pt concentration towards the core of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pd favoring (100) facets over (111) facets. These phenomena affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, resulting from increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, protects the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, impacting the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells is improved by Pt-based alloys, which exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation. This process leads to a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, enhancing stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co is unlikely to continuously segregate in PtCo alloys, as it is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation is crucial for Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR activity is four times higher on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is successfully interpreted by a kinetic model. The exothermic process of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process of Co segregation, illustrating the differential effects of surface segregation on Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased ORR rate and electrochemical stability against dissolution. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature significantly alters the surface morphology of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) catalysts, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This transformation profoundly impacts adsorption properties, attributed to ensemble effects for deuterium adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and deuterium adsorption upon alloy formation. These changes in surface structure and composition affect the catalytic properties, specifically activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even in chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studies on Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces reveal that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands form with a specific Ag-Pt composition. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can influence the structural dynamics and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also display superior electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates attract alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doped elements affect Pt segregation through surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, stability is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote 2). Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt (Quotes 9, 10). The stability of Pt alloys follows the order Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo exhibiting higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a critical role in ORR on alloy surfaces (Quote 18). Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a low Mo content (below 30%) providing higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, the less reactive Cu component segregates to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. Adsorbate-induced changes in local atomic composition and surface structure alter catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt NSA's instability at high CO pressures leads to the formation of a SA structure. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, where the stable CO-induced surface alloy forms and breaks up. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the subsurface stability of 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties and ORR activity. DFT calculations predict the stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, revealing the crystal plane's effect on ORR activity.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with the second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties due to complex surface structures. Pt-based catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show superior performance in reactions compared to pure Pt. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates whether admetals migrate to the surface or remain subsurface, affecting surface composition. Hydrogen-induced segregation is governed by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface-subsurface configuration, whereas strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate surface segregation and structural dynamics. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This structural adaptability significantly impacts catalytic properties, as Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for understanding alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. H2 presence doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, while O2 adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are fully reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Preparation methods and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers, influencing surface structural configurations. For oxygen reduction reactions, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe showed higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires precise control of surface structural configurations and understanding their stability at elevated temperatures and under various reaction atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has prompted extensive research. Studies often concentrate on surface and subsurface structures under vacuum, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur in environments with adsorbates that can alter surface segregation and composition. Thus, understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for optimizing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to lower Pd content, 2D distribution differences, or bonding variations.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of surface atoms significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces, as per quote 8: 'CO oxidation does not occur at initially pure Au clusters, due to the requirement of neighboring Pt sites for O2 dissociation.' These factors affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregating under oxygen adsorption. DFT calculations predict higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures compared to surface configurations. PtNiPt is the most resistant, while PtTiPt is the most susceptible. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and polycrystalline Pt, revealing trends in stability under various conditions. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in (100) structures compared to (111) configurations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results indicate Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, PtFe alloys form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, underlining the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces due to its tendency to migrate to the second layer. This makes continuous Co segregation kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation boosts catalytic efficiency, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces is four times higher than on pure Pt. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects in the rearrangement process. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is well interpreted by a kinetic model, demonstrating the exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate. A positive potential shift indicates delayed Pt atom dissolution, enhancing stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces alters morphology from Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, significantly changing adsorption properties. This transformation affects the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt. These changes have implications for the catalytic properties of the surface, as they can affect the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the prime electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by cheaper metals, have been explored as alternative catalysts. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, not geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studies on silver growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface reveal that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 form. Upon annealing above 600 K, extensive alloying occurs starting at the perimeter of the Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. AES studies indicate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can influence the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory calculations, which predict catalytic behavior. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed in a two-step process: considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while doping with Ag, Au, or Pd suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote stronger Pt segregation to the surface, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. This is because Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms exposed at the surface vacancy can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds, with O atoms preferentially bonding with solute M atoms at the second layer. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Under electrochemical conditions, alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same O coverage, with zero O coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being crucial for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element, with Pt2Mo showing lower kinetic barriers for oxygen reduction and a key role for OOH dissociation in OR activity. The stability hierarchy follows Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo exhibiting higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ O coverage facilitating the reaction. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity, as a low Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while a high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The CuPt near-surface alloy is a promising water-gas shift catalyst due to reduced PtCO bonding, but it becomes unstable at high CO pressures and temperatures, forming a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy instead. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane orientation influences the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity highlight the role of structural dynamics in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties due to their complex surface structures, where the second metal can be present in various states. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys show superior performance in reactions compared to pure Pt. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO), 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size (Quote 1). Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands (Quote 2). This structural dynamics significantly affects catalytic properties; for instance, Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity (Quote 3). The interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal for alloy catalyst performance (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, specifically PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 [1], while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic properties relationship, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts [4]. These insights are crucial for optimizing catalysts in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal for catalysis, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of segregation. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence these trends and surface composition, directly impacting catalytic properties. This research is essential for understanding and optimizing the performance of Pt-based catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) favors surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied, showing the probability of Pt/Pd dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface segregation significantly impacts the catalytic activity of alloys, particularly in the first layers of the catalyst surface, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface atomic distribution for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy compared to Pt (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2) and their immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various conditions is critical for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. This is verified experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, PtTiPt most susceptible. Stability trends are demonstrated through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and foil. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. AES results suggest two segregation regions, revealing DFT and experiments' applicability to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. Linear trends show correlation of thermodynamic stability with d-band center difference. Switching admetal/host shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Pt-3d alloys like PtFe exhibit the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research on CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer aims to further elucidate its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not by changes in Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt's slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, particularly the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface migration, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to kinetic barriers. Studies confirm that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for ORR, quadrupling reaction rates compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface components in Pt alloys, revealing critical roles of metal dissolution and rearrangement in the segregation process. The model explains these phenomena, highlighting the exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co, which is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting the ORR rate. A positive potential shift indicates delayed Pt atom dissolution, enhancing stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. These changes, attributed to ensemble effects and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, impact catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure and composition, observable by STM, critically affect adsorption properties, demonstrating sensitivity to local structure for probe molecules like CO and deuterium. This highlights the importance of surface dynamics in Pt-based alloys for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, impacts materials science and surface chemistry, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the ORR in fuel cells, has seen efforts to find alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Enhanced ORR activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface electronic structure and bond length. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic properties. An example is the temperature-dependent behavior of Ag on Pt(1 0 0), forming elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature, which alloy with Pt above 600 K, spreading across the surface with sufficient Ag. AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting that thermodynamic preferences and conditions affect catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique properties in hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, which is predicted by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with promoting metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas replacing it with suppressing metals prevents Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, with zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable alloy at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, and the barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys counterintuitively pulls Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm this, showing increased CO binding energy compensates for the endothermic Cu diffusion. The CuPt near-surface alloy's potential as a water-gas shift catalyst, due to reduced PtCO bonding, is highlighted. These findings suggest new possibilities for engineering alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are key to understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic counterparts in catalytic efficiency. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions. This dynamic nature allows for the adjustment of catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference. The segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect, while strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common, driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability can decrease under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surface impact catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Preparation methods and reaction conditions determine Fe's presence as a topmost surface or subsurface layer. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. This research is essential for understanding the performance of bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability of these alloys is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd segregation over Ru. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the host (Ru) enhances surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, indicating the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, significantly affects catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion is thermodynamically favorable for CO binding. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles forming.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in varying conditions is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using Δεd, correlating with thermodynamic stability and kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) preference in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. AES confirms segregation behavior, showing DFT predictions apply to polycrystalline substrates. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends in stability extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal that Pd segregates to the outer layers, while Pt concentration increases from surfaces to the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. In PtFe systems, Fe dissolution under specific conditions leads to a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Further studies on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer are underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for understanding the catalytic implications of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt's slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation affects catalytic properties, as Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Studies using experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface segregation in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. The introduction of 3d metals into Pt(111) alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both clean and under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in studied alloys. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, leading to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces alters the surface morphology from Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly impacting adsorption properties. This transformation affects the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between metallic constituents, influencing catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are observed. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) reveals the surface structure and distribution of components, showing sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, impacts physical and chemical properties, significantly altering catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the main factor for enhanced ORR activities in Pt-skin surfaces. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, such as temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, impacting their catalytic properties. In Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, Ag adislands form at room temperature with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Upon annealing above 600K, AgPt exchange occurs, leading to nanophasic alloy formation confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, suggesting that reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these processes. Selected NSAs uniquely allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and potentially easing hydrogen separation and storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw surface components to which they strongly bind. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from idealized NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, but quantitative effects on properties are observed. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is needed for optimal catalytic properties, suggesting advanced nanofabrication techniques could be crucial.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas replacing it with suppressing metals inhibits Pt surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Under electrochemical conditions, alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same O coverage, highlighting the importance of maintaining zero O coverage at working potentials for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation being a key activity determinant. The stability hierarchy is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ O coverage facilitating the reaction. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance. Low Mo content (e.g., Pt5Mo) may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (e.g., PtMo) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, supporting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes affect the thermodynamic stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, influencing surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. The crystal plane's effect on subsurface stability and ORR activity is crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface complexity, exhibit superior catalytic properties compared to monometallic catalysts, as exemplified by Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals. Surface structure dynamics during reactions, influenced by redox potential, offer tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) favor 3d transition metals in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d metal surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d metals exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin stability can decrease under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Surface configurations can transform between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces through oxidation and reduction cycles, impacting catalytic performance in various applications. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt in such reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, affecting the alloys' performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface, except for a slight Pt loss. Surface alloy stability differences are linked to Pd content, with Pt showing higher stability. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd segregation over Ru. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps including Pt/Pd deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying, confirms these tendencies. Lower Pd content and size mismatch contribute to distinct growth patterns, affecting the surface structure and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits unique antisegregation behavior even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing atomic distribution in catalytic alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various environments is crucial for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant, PtTiPt most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends are quantified using Δεd and empirical equations, correlating DFT with experimental kinetic barriers. Surface and subsurface configurations have different binding properties, impacting catalytic reactions based on Sabatier's principle. Stability predictions extend to other bimetallic systems and complex adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results indicate Pd atoms segregate to the surface of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing towards the core. Pd is more likely to segregate to (100) facets than (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, protects the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer is ongoing to better understand its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at around 50% Fe content, achieving 25 times higher activity than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells is improved by Pt-based alloys, which exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation. This process leads to a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, enhancing stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co tends to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation is crucial for Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces have a four times higher ORR rate than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of metal atom dissolution and rearrangement in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and enhancing catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and improved electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing alters the surface morphology of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) catalysts, transitioning from Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This transformation significantly impacts adsorption properties, attributed to ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation. Changes in surface structure and composition affect the adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, influencing the catalytic activity and selectivity. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) reveals the surface structure and distribution of components, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by less expensive metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals show enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. Observed in Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0), 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting conditions impact catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. NSAs bind hydrogen weakly like noble metals but dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. The stability of NSAs is evaluated in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates attract alloy components they bind strongly. Hydrogen-induced segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs show high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for pharmaceuticals and hydrogen separation. Deviations from ideal NSA models don't significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt3d alloys. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects from the doped element M collectively influence Pt surface segregation energy. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals increases Pt segregation, whereas replacing with Ag, Au, and Pd prevents Pt surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is significantly affected by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for optimal activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. This is because Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, allowing stronger bonding with O atoms compared to terrace Pt atoms. Additionally, the exposure of second layer atoms at surface vacancies enables the formation of stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Among various Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as an element that can alloy with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo exhibits a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. The stability of clean alloy surfaces is inferred from the Pt d-band structure, showing that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band. Only Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt, rationalizing the observed Cu surface segregation. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly influence the stability of subsurface 3d metals, affecting surface segregation and structural configuration. DFT calculations predict this stability and its impact on oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, highlighting the role of crystal planes in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic counterparts, as evidenced by Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals showing superior catalytic activity. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions. This dynamic nature allows for the adjustment of catalytic activity and selectivity in bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions like vacuum and CO, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Conversely, oxidizing conditions promote 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common, driven by strain release. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation, while hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Research shows that surface segregation closely relates to activity improvement, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys, where ORR rates are four times higher than pure Pt. Studying surface segregation under various adsorbates is critical, as adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties and performance in applications like the ORR.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating strong surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability of these alloys slightly differs due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd showing a tendency to segregate due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, showing distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, inducing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly influenced by segregation, critically affects the catalytic activity of the first 23 layers in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface presence. CO adsorption at room temperature on PtAu clusters promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces lacking neighboring Pt sites. These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    