Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Pt3dPt subsurface structures exhibit stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends correlate with d-band center differences, predicting preferred configurations in various environments. Oxygen binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in different conditions, and linear trends extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Segregation behavior is consistent across single crystal and polycrystalline substrates, bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, which has implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed through increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells, as indicated by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-Fe alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt, a crucial cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity attributed to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer, boosting stability. Au demonstrates strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation notably increases ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. These findings underscore the critical role of surface segregation in the catalytic performance of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. 3d metals improve surface adsorption properties, enhancing Pt-skin stability over pure Pt in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is inversely related to oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which enhances catalytic properties like oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation to a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing reaction rate, and stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys exhibit enhanced stability over pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interactions. This affects catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some Pt. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved with appropriate structures. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, particularly temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes alloying, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that these conditions affect the stability and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that reduces O and OH binding strength, boosting ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, with enhanced electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed in a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing the solute's segregation energy to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the pure solute and host. NSAs offer exceptional hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, potentially revolutionizing the production of chiral pharmaceuticals and hydrogen storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as evidenced by modified catalytic activity on non-ideal NSAs, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it, influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with the former group, while the latter can prevent Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability and catalytic activity of Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, are significantly influenced by oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces exhibit higher stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Adsorbed O atoms, however, facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9). The optimum Mo content in PtMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, notably Pt-3d alloys, is governed by crystal planes, impacting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with crystal planes significantly affecting ORR activity, thus influencing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallics, featuring a second metal in various states, enhance catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the thermodynamic superiority of subsurface PtNiPt(111) over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs in Pt-based alloys prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, impacting catalytic properties. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe demonstrate higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times the activity of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Studies reveal that surface segregation closely relates to activity improvement, as evidenced by Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys showing four times the ORR rate of pure Pt. Understanding the segregation trend of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, affecting performance in real-world applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES confirmed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, with near-complete restoration of original composition after re-alloying. Slight Pt loss was observed. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. A Boltzmann approach estimates Pt/Pd dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly affected by segregation, critically impacts catalytic activity in alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at high Au compositions favor Au's presence atop Pt (Quote 1). CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (Quote 2). Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in binding CO (Quote 3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it fails on pure Au surfaces (Quote 8). These dynamics directly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic performance in various applications. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen triggers 3d atom surface segregation. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions, showing PtNiPt's resistance and PtTiPt's susceptibility to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, while a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental measurements are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, showing linear trends in stability correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts the driving potential of segregation, with a predicted preferred configuration in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates in the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, with ongoing studies focusing on the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not changes in Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, directly addressing the influence of bimetallic surface structures on catalytic properties under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to sluggish ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity, attributed to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin. Au in PtAu alloys shows strong surface segregation, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation boosts Pt-based catalyst stability and ORR activity, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s observation that Pt-skin surfaces have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects in the rearrangement process. The segregation model explains these phenomena, highlighting the exothermic process in PtAu and the endothermic process in PtCo.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals significantly enhance surface adsorption properties and stability, particularly in Pt-skin surfaces, under various conditions. This enhancement is linked to oxygen adsorption strength and the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals in alloys modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength, catalytic properties, and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and enhanced electrochemical stability. Surface segregation to a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from Pt islands to surface alloys, impacting adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects. This changes adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru, affecting the catalyst's activity and selectivity. Surface structure significantly influences adsorption properties, with ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, profoundly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a prime catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by cheaper metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, especially when Pt alloys with 3d metals. Notably, surface segregation plays a critical role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces on annealed Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with theoretical approaches elucidating the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, specifically Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing above 600 K. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, emphasizing temperature's role in structural dynamics and stability, with direct implications for catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that reduces O and OH binding strength, enhancing ORR activity. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and surface segregation of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them suitable for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and potentially easing hydrogen separation and storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency to do so estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it, impacting catalytic properties. This is determined by Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage, but zero coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote [1]). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote [2]). In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding (Quote [6]). Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt (Quotes [9] and [10]). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quotes [19] and [20]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity. Crystal plane effects significantly influence bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties due to increased surface structural complexity. These catalysts show superior performance in various reactions compared to pure Pt surfaces. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by the redox potential of reaction gases, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing, indicating subsurface Pt preference. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, suggesting thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, but segregate to the surface under oxidizing conditions, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, emphasizing the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, forming oxides that encapsulate Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial for catalytic processes in Pt-based bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalysts' stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions, attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe outperform pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding surface configurations' stability under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, significantly boosts catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals outperform pure Pt in the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), with surface segregation closely tied to activity enhancement. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit ORR activity four times higher than pure Pt. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES showed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys restored their original composition, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer, and a slight Pt loss during re-alloying. The stability difference may be attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch favors impurity inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, indicating the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the (100) step bridge site in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen. Surface atomic arrangement critically affects catalytic activity, underscoring the significance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences guide bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its surface presence on Pt-based systems. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to surface structures. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with Δεd used to screen alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd atoms segregate to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration rises inward, creating Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms show a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle surface, which impacts catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, enhances catalytic properties crucial for fuel cell applications by shielding the alloy from corrosion. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not changes in Pt interatomic distance or surface roughness, highlighting the role of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the alloy surface, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring Pt-skin formation, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic process of Au segregation to the Pt(111) surface highlights its thermodynamic favorability, unlike the endothermic process for Co, making continuous Co segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., exhibit four times the ORR activity of pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of thermodynamics and kinetics in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals significantly alter surface adsorption properties, enhancing stability of Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, especially in oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals improves electronic and geometric properties, boosting catalytic performance, such as the ORR rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects. This transformation impacts catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure and composition, observable by STM, critically affect adsorption properties, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, exhibits enhanced ORR activities in Pt-3d alloys due to surface segregation. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed a four-fold increase in ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces of Pt3Co alloys compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, not just surface geometry. Theoretical approaches, temperature, and adsorbates govern surface segregation, impacting the catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. An illustrative case is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, forming elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic AgPt alloy. AES studies reveal that Ag mixes with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting how reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structure and performance, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing catalytic activity. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), notably in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique properties influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. They bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them ideal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. The stability of NSAs can be assessed in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, which is advantageous for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and could facilitate easier hydrogen separation and storage. To fully leverage NSAs' catalytic properties, precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is needed, potentially through improved nanofabrication techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M vs. Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with transition metals that enhance Pt segregation strengthens it, while those that prevent it entirely do so by opposing these conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is critical for both high activity and stability. Among various Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The stability and activity of Pt2Mo make it an optimal choice for catalytic applications, achieving a balance that other alloys with lower or higher Mo content cannot match.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, highlighting the potential for molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting ORR activity, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. These catalysts, especially those with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) surfaces are more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates' Pauling electronegativity affects the thermodynamic potential for configuration change, with strong electronegativity leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs segregate to subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This adaptability enhances catalytic properties, as atomic dispersed 3d TMs on Pt(111) surfaces are highly active for CO oxidation. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is critical for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii, is tunable by gas treatments. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation, whereas hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes during oxidation or reduction, depending on reaction gas redox potential, significantly impact real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. For instance, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) beyond pure Pt capabilities. This phenomenon, pivotal to catalytic performance, has attracted significant research interest. While studies often focus on surface structures under vacuum, the presence of adsorbates during catalytic reactions like the ORR can alter surface segregation trends and composition, impacting catalytic properties. Understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is crucial for optimizing catalytic performance, as evidenced by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that after re-alloying, the original composition is nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, except for slight Pt loss. Stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd due to their higher surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) creates tensile stress, promoting surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through preparation steps, including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir displays antisegregation, even in the presence of oxygen. Surface atomic arrangement significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of characterizing surface atomic distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility at high Au compositions favor its surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces, lacking neighboring Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT calculations predict that Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and expanded to polycrystalline Pt to assess kinetic barriers for segregation. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, with empirical equations developed for predicting stability in other bimetallic systems. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, revealing two regions of segregation. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, with a (111)-oriented facet, develops due to Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shielding the alloy from corrosion and enhancing catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for understanding the catalytic implications of Pt-based alloys under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, boost oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity through surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin that enhances stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, aligning with thermodynamics, whereas Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces due to kinetic barriers. Pt-skin surfaces, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al., quadruple the ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, uncovering critical surface defects and rearrangement processes. The segregation model elucidates phenomena in acidic solutions and interlayer migration, highlighting the exothermic process in PtAu and endothermic in PtCo, rendering Co segregation to clean Pt(111) surfaces both thermodynamically and kinetically unfavorable.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) enhances surface adsorption properties and stability, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. This modification improves electronic and geometric properties, boosting catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reaction and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing reaction rates, with stability enhancement linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This transformation impacts catalytic activity and selectivity, as demonstrated by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like ORR in fuel cells, is often replaced by cheaper metals in bimetallic alloys to enhance catalytic properties. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. Stamenkovic et al.'s study on Pt3Co alloys revealed that Pt-skin surfaces have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Surface segregation is influenced by temperature and adsorbates, and theoretical approaches help elucidate its driving forces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces. Annealing above 600 K triggers AgPt exchange, leading to surface-confined nanophasic alloy formation. With adequate Ag, the alloy spreads evenly across the surface. AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and displaying increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these processes. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals modify Pt surface segregation, impacting stability and catalytic properties under varying conditions. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt2Mo, exhibit enhanced stability under electrochemical conditions when oxygen coverage is minimized. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding show greater stability than those with OPt bonding. Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potentials (1.05 V) and a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, with OOH dissociation being key for activity. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are crucial for the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in Pt2Mo skin alloys is 30%, achieving a balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. The CuPt near-surface alloy (NSA) is unstable at high CO pressures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy (SA) structure. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamics and crystal planes dictate subsurface 3d metal stability, impacting catalytic properties. Oxygen-induced segregation and subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) are predicted by DFT calculations, affecting ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR are pivotal for understanding catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals in the subsurface, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, as observed in reversible processes like wetting-dewetting and sintering-dispersion under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence surface stability and segregation, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d systems, exhibit a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen-binding energy differences dictate surface composition, with hydrogen inducing segregation under certain conditions. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, whereas strong ones, like N or O, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. These findings are crucial for understanding the structural dynamics and catalytic implications of bimetallic surfaces under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, promote 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic influences catalytic properties, as Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, such as Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces segregation of 3d transition metals due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes are fully reversible, depending on the redox potential of reaction gases, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, with Pt-skin structures in Fe-Pt systems showing high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure, affecting surface species adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, crucial for designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe exhibit higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrate 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR. Understanding structural stability under varying conditions optimizes Fe-Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, significantly boosts catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR performance compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates under reaction environments alter surface composition and segregation trends, critically affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is paramount for understanding their application-specific performance, as evidenced by the Pt-skin surface of Pt3Co, which quadruples ORR rates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES found that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) nearly regained their original composition, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer, and slight Pt loss during re-alloying. Stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) substrate promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through deposition, annealing, and re-alloying steps. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) could be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) display segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation effects in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, such as CO adsorption, influence bimetallic catalyst stability and surface dynamics in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface migration, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference for surface migration to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is inhibited on pure Au surfaces due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental evidence confirm the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with hydrogen, but predict segregation with oxygen. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. The stability trend, verified on single and polycrystalline Pt, indicates subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. This impacts catalytic properties: subsurface structures with optimal binding properties might halt reactions due to strong binding, while surface structures could bind too weakly, preventing reactions. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulations on PtPd nanoparticles revealed Pd segregation to the surface and increasing Pt concentration in the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that enhances corrosion resistance, crucial for fuel cell applications. Ongoing studies explore the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding light on its potential in enhancing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, underscoring the significance of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to the investigation of Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the alloy surface, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring thermodynamics, whereas Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process, observed under various conditions, including acidic solutions, influences catalytic activity, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces where the ORR rate is four times higher than pure Pt. The process is exothermic for PtAu systems but endothermic for PtCo systems, affecting the continuous segregation of Co. Surface segregation plays a key role in catalytic properties, as evidenced by the enhanced activity of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces more effectively than pure Pt, under both clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement correlates inversely with oxygen adsorption strength, with 3d subsurface atoms playing a protective role by strongly binding to the Pt surface layer. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and enhanced electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing reaction rates, and delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials, even under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction changes. This impacts catalytic activity and selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are critical for Pt-based alloy systems' catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the ORR in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys showed a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into a nanophasic alloy upon annealing above 600 K, which spreads across the surface. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, emphasizing temperature's role in catalyst structure and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them ideal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Stability can be assessed in two steps: evaluating composition in vacuum and considering hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the pure solute and host. NSAs show promise for high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it, impacting the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt. Zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in the clean state (Quote 2). Pt2Ti skin alloys exhibit more stable surface vacancies with OTi bonding than OPt bonding (Quote 6). Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo having a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (Quotes 9, 10). Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT predicts enhanced subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity, with crystal planes playing a crucial role.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity by adjusting the redox potential of reaction gases, critical for catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as observed in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect Pt-based bimetallic catalysts' stability and structure. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions lead to 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic-dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Surface structures of PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts undergo reversible changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain. Oxygen adsorption induces top surface segregation of 3d transition metals due to strong bonding, whereas hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect the segregation process. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to encapsulation of Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, depending on the redox potential of the reaction gases, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe demonstrate higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, closely tied to surface segregation. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their catalytic performance in various applications, as catalytic properties are primarily determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by surface composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) show significant segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with minor Pt loss. Stability is content-dependent, lower for Pd (44%) than Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd over Ru. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorption influences surface segregation in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, favoring bridge sites over (100) steps. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly shaped by atom arrangement in the first layers, critically affects catalytic activity in alloys, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and performance, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility at compositions >17% favor its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms that Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why oxidation is absent on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to low Pt site ensemble probability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions, confirmed experimentally, reveal that Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, with PtNiPt being most resistant and PtTiPt most susceptible. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in different environments, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation compared to Pt3dPt(111) configurations, highlighting the importance of understanding stability in reacting environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results show Pd segregation to the outer layers and a gradient increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the core in PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer certain facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and form this protective layer, enhancing corrosion resistance and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing studies explore the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25x higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This affects the continuous segregation of Co, making it unlikely. Surface segregation's role is exemplified by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals' introduction boosts surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, especially in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms' protective role, improves catalytic properties, such as a higher oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. A Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys exhibit superior stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic effects, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. This sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of understanding bimetallic surface dynamics under varying conditions for Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, dramatically affects properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated adislands form on Pt(1 0 0), transforming into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing above 600 K. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions significantly influence catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also improves electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying thermodynamic conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Selected NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Advanced fabrication techniques suggest practical strategies for metals may soon be available, enabling precise control of catalyst surface structure for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) enhance Pt surface segregation by lowering energies, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping increases energies, inhibiting Pt segregation. Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is essential for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Pt2Mo alloys, featuring Mo, are stable at high electrochemical potentials and have a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation barrier as a key parameter for OR activity (Quote 9, 10). Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 20). Low Mo content (below 30%) may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT predicts enhanced stability of subsurface 3d metal in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity, with crystal planes playing a crucial role.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic properties due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based bimetallics show exceptional performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential, offer tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, crucial for various applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are thermodynamically more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces in Pt3d alloys show a thermodynamic preference. Hydrogen's binding energy influences admetal segregation, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates' Pauling electronegativity affects thermodynamic potential for configuration interchange, with strong electronegativity altering binding energy and promoting surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact Pt-3d alloy catalysts. Reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) favor 3d TM subsurface placement due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable through treatments in various gases. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii, is common, with hydrogen's weak bonding not altering segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption, however, induces segregation of 3d transition metals due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to reversible mass transport processes that significantly impact catalytic processes, depending on the redox potential of the reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are notably active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The presence of subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications such as oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals exhibit higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, highlighting the importance of controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly enhances catalytic activities, as evidenced by improved oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates under reaction conditions influence segregation trends, altering surface composition and thus catalytic properties. Studying this under surface adsorption is crucial for understanding and optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that surface segregation of Pd and Pt occurs after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd segregating due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied, with a Boltzmann approach estimating Pt/Pd dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's strongest adsorption at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, influenced by the first 23 layers and segregation, is crucial for catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favoring Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation, explaining why oxidation is hindered on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors critically influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen but segregate under oxygen, verified experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt. Subsurface structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than surface configurations, with PtNiPt being most resistant and PtTiPt most susceptible. Δεd screens alloys for stability, correlating with thermodynamic stability and kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show the correlation of stability with d-band center applies beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd atoms segregate to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing towards the core. Pd prefers (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. The steady CV after potential cycles indicates increased Fe dissolution and Pt skin layer formation, protecting the PtFe alloy. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer is underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, highlighting the role of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells is improved by Pt-based alloys, which exhibit enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au in PtAu alloys shows strong surface segregation, thermodynamically favoring its presence on the surface, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate to the second layer, making Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces more than pure Pt, especially under oxygen coverage. This stability is linked to oxygen adsorption strength and correlates with improved catalytic performance, such as enhanced oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting activity. The stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt dissolution and remaining superior under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects. This changes adsorption ensemble composition and metallic electronic states, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. Surface structure and component distribution significantly influence adsorption properties, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition. These transformations directly affect the catalytic properties of bimetallic surfaces, emphasizing the role of surface structure in Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals, enhancing catalytic properties through modified surface geometry and electronic structure. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, impacting their catalytic properties. In Pt-based systems, such as Pt-3d alloys, Ag forms elongated 2D adislands on a Pt(1 0 0) surface at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, illustrating the influence of reaction conditions on structural dynamics and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them ideal for hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability can be assessed using a two-step procedure: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, and hydrogen's tendency can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt segregation, impacting stability and structure, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects collectively influence Pt segregation, which is determined by its relative energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M versus Pt3Ni crystals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys is significantly influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. Pt2Mo alloys, particularly with 30% Mo content, exhibit higher stability and lower kinetic barriers for oxygen reduction compared to pure Pt, making them more active. This optimal Mo content achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with lower contents offering higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, and higher contents destabilizing the alloy and reducing activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the stability dynamics of subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, affecting oxygen-induced segregation and structural configuration. DFT calculations predict the stability of 3d metals in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, crucial for ORR activity. These factors collectively influence catalytic properties and performance in applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallics. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, critical for various applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often have a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, with 3d TMs favoring subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to surface energy and size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, highlighting structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes. The much larger atomic radius of Pt (1.39 A) than those of Co (1.25 A), Ni (1.24 A), and Cu (1.28 A) contributes to the surface segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under oxidation and reduction cycles have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine surface structural configurations, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can alter surface segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their catalytic performance, as evidenced by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on a Pt-skin surface compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is restored with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface, though Pt experiences slight loss. Stability variance is linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior suggests a probability for Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloy (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even under oxygen adsorption. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's surface layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the lack of Pt site ensembles. These insights have implications for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    