Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to surface structures. Experimental results confirm these predictions, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface configurations. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd is used to screen alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in different conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experiments show subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Linear trends in thermodynamic stability extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "In PtPd nanoparticles, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions lead to Pd segregation to the outer layers, forming a Pd-enriched shell, while Pt concentration increases from surface to core. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic properties in fuel cells. The steady CV after potential cycles indicates the protective layer's formation, with ongoing research exploring its electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In polymer electrolyte fuel cells, Pt-Fe alloy cathode electrocatalysts exhibit enhanced activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughness, as per thermodynamic preferences influencing stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the exothermic pathway for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo, hindering continuous Co segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure, with 3d metals in Pt(111) systems enhancing stability and catalytic performance. Subsurface atoms protect and modify electronic and geometric properties, while a Pt-skin layer boosts the oxygen reduction reaction rate. 3d metals delay Pt atom dissolution, indicating enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This impacts CO and deuterium adsorption, demonstrating sensitivity to local structure and composition, and affects catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. These structural dynamics under varying conditions affect the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, boosting ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit enhanced electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs, or near-surface alloys, bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more efficiently, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Exceptional NSAs defy common rules by allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, exhibiting high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in two steps: considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency gauged by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may vary from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Advanced nanofabrication techniques suggest practical strategies for metals may be imminent, crucial for optimizing NSA catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface concentration due to negative segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd lead to positive segregation, preventing Pt from reaching the surface. This differential effect, determined by relative Pt surface segregation energy influenced by lattice mismatch and heat of solution, significantly impacts the structural dynamics and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. However, zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are stabilized by the Pt d-band structure, reducing Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Ti skin alloys show that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated conditions, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This behavior is driven by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, rationalizing the observed Cu surface segregation. DFT calculations confirm these findings, suggesting molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces with implications for catalytic properties and performance. The results open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes critically affect subsurface 3d metal stability and ORR activity. DFT calculations predict oxygen-induced segregation and subsurface stability, highlighting the role of crystal planes in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallics due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, akin to reversible processes observed in monometallics under redox conditions, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity. Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, enabling tailored catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is pivotal, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) surfaces are thermodynamically stable under annealing in vacuum, outperforming NiPtPt(111) structures. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is dictated by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen's binding energy influencing segregation dynamics. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, whereas strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs are highly active for CO oxidation via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay. [1] Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs prefer subsurface layers. [2] Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM segregation to the surface. [3] Pt(111) with 3d TMs is active for CO oxidation. [4] The interplay between structure, environment, and activity is crucial.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by the redox potential of reaction gases. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenation reactions. The electronic structure of surface Pt, influenced by subsurface Fe, enhances adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show significantly higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit superior ORR performance, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys show a four-fold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Studying surface segregation under surface adsorption is essential, as adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, significantly impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu and PtRu on Ru(0001) exhibit segregation of Pd and Pt, influenced by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps reveal distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences. These findings highlight the role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation, even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of surface distribution in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and performance, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces due to low Pt site ensemble probability, explaining the lack of oxidation on pure Au clusters.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions, confirmed experimentally, show Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregate with oxygen. PtNiPt exhibits highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, verified on single and polycrystalline Pt. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship links DFT stability with experimental barriers for Pt3dPt systems. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the importance of understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability has been assessed with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with 0.5 ML O. AES results confirm segregation behavior and activation barriers for adsorbate-induced segregation. Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation with d-band center difference is applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have the same preferred configuration in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations preferred with 0.5 ML O.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd tends to segregate to the surface, particularly the (100) facets, while Pt concentrates in the core, significantly influencing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer enhances stability against corrosion, impacting the alloy's catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, forming a protective layer. Ongoing research explores the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe at 50% content boosts electrocatalytic activity 25-fold, attributed to surface 5d-vacancy, underscoring structural dynamics' significance under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, leading to research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, is crucial for improved stability and catalytic performance. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit four times the ORR rate of pure Pt, highlighting the catalytic implications of surface segregation. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu, while Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces, demonstrating the varied effects of alloy composition on segregation tendencies. Modern techniques have elucidated these trends, revealing the critical role of surface defects and interlayer migration in the process. Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. Incorporating 3d metals enhances surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces, particularly under oxygen adsorption. This stability, due to the protective effect of 3d subsurface atoms, improves catalytic properties like oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability, facilitating adsorbed species removal and enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature profoundly impacts the stability, surface segregation, and structure of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, altering surface morphology and adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interactions. Surface structure and composition are pivotal for catalytic activity and selectivity, as probe molecule adsorption sensitivity underscores the critical role of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, including active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop cheaper alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Notably, enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than just surface geometry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and temperature significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, exemplified by the temperature-dependent growth of Ag on Pt(1 0 0). At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form, while annealing above 600 K promotes alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, highlighting the influence of temperature on the catalyst's structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, critical for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based NSAs, exhibit exceptional hydrogen binding properties, pivotal for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability and surface segregation can be assessed through a two-step method, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface, influencing segregation. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Improved nanofabrication techniques could enhance control over catalyst surface structures, maximizing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation due to more negative Pt surface segregation energies, whereas doping with Ag, Au, and Pd inhibits it due to positive energies. The degree of Pt segregation is governed by relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, impacting the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, with zero oxygen coverage at working potentials being key for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A Mo content of 30% in Pt2Mo skin alloy optimizes stability and activity, with lower Mo content providing higher stability at high potentials but not improving activity over Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, Cu is counterintuitively pulled to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, as confirmed by DFT calculations. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The CuPt near-surface alloy, suggested as a promising water-gas shift catalyst due to reduced PtCO bonding, forms a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure at high CO pressures, which is more stable than Cu in the bulk.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "DFT calculations predict that crystal planes in Pt-based systems influence oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface stability and ORR activity, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, featuring Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface complexity. Reaction conditions dynamically alter surface structures, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, critical for optimizing performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is pivotal, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) exhibits greater thermodynamic stability than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically favored in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen's binding energy influencing segregation. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, promoting 3d metals' surface segregation. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect, whereas strong ones like N or O significantly alter binding energy, driving surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect Pt-based bimetallic catalysts' stability, segregation, and structure. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands [2]. This impacts catalytic properties; Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3], highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation onto the top surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to the encapsulation of Pt surfaces with oxides. These reversible structural changes have significant implications for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and excel in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. For oxygen reduction reactions, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys being 25 times more active. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding their stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts enhances catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), due to thermodynamic preferences. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities over pure Pt, with surface segregation playing a critical role. Under operating environments, adsorbates modify segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying segregation under adsorbates is essential for understanding the catalytic performance of Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by the unique activity of Pt-skin surfaces in ORR reactions, where the reaction rate is four times higher than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys via STM and AES revealed complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer and slight Pt loss. Surface alloy stability varies with Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), matching observed segregation trends. Size mismatches favor Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, showed distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) at 500 K, contrasting with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed, affecting catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic factors and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in surfacing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom surface segregation. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using DFT and experiments, correlating with d-band center values and kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT and experiments on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates. General stability trends predict preferred configurations in different environments, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results indicate Pd segregates to the outer layers and (100) facets, while Pt concentration increases towards the core of PtPd nanoparticles, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, primarily with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by Fe dissolution, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic properties in fuel cells, as evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak after potential cycles. Ongoing research is exploring the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer, including CO adsorption and oxidation, for improved fuel cell performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for understanding catalytic implications under varying conditions in Pt-based alloy systems, not by interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity through surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin that boosts stability. PtAu alloys show strong Au segregation, unlike PtCo alloys where Co atoms migrate to the second layer, hindering continuous Co segregation. Surface segregation significantly enhances catalytic properties, with Pt-skin surfaces demonstrating a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface components in Pt alloys, revealing the segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with thermodynamic and kinetic differences observed between PtAu and PtCo systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces in clean and oxygen-covered states. This stability, following the inverse order of oxygen adsorption strengths, highlights the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals boosts adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation aids in removing adsorbed species, accelerating reaction rates, and the stability enhancement is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys exhibit superior stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and sensitively affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. This highlights the importance of local structure and composition in probe molecule adsorption, particularly in chemically active metals like Ru and Pt, demonstrating the critical role of these factors in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of cost-effective Pt-based bimetallic alloys. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. The interlayer distance is correlated with the segregation energy, and the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces are due to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Under varying temperatures, the stability and structure of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as AgPt alloys, change significantly. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on a Pt(1 0 0) surface (Ag80Pt20). Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to nanophasic alloy formation confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures cause Ag to mix with bulk Pt, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by attracting strongly bound alloy components. Selected NSAs defy conventional norms by enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen separation. Despite deviations from ideal NSA models, main adsorbate behavior trends remain unaffected.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate stability, surface segregation, and structure, impacting catalytic properties. Transition metals like V, Fe, and Co enhance Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Segregation is influenced by surface energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, with promoting metals enhancing Pt segregation and suppressing metals preventing Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo showing a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption drives the less reactive Cu component to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, crystal planes significantly influence the thermodynamics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation and subsurface metal stability, impacting ORR activity. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability under oxygen, highlighting the critical role of crystal planes in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, feature enhanced surface complexity, with the second metal's state significantly impacting catalytic properties. Pt-3d transition metal alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures undergo dynamic changes during reactions, offering the potential to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity by tuning the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing, indicating subsurface stability. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, reflecting a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) push 3d TMs to the subsurface due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic-dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by treatments in various gases. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii to relieve strain, with Pt's larger radius contributing to this process. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metals to the surface due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to the encapsulation of Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes, reversible depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impact catalytic processes, demonstrating the dynamic behavior of these catalysts under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction, with Fe49Pt51 demonstrating 25 times higher activity, as evidenced by studies on CO oxidation selectivity and hydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, driven by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, significantly enhances catalytic activities, particularly in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR). Pt alloys with 3d metals outperform pure Pt in ORR, a direct consequence of surface segregation. Adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Notably, Pt-skin surfaces, where Pt segregates on the top layer, exhibit reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the critical role of studying segregation under surface adsorption for optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) exhibit significant segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with near restoration of original composition and slight Pt loss. Stability variance is attributed to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1), and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt: 0.277 nm, Pd: 0.275 nm) and Ru(0001) (0.270 nm) enhances surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through four preparation steps, indicates probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) at 500 K contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences, impacting stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption in Pt-based alloys favors the bridge site over the (100) step, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show segregation, whereas Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the role of segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. DFT confirms Pt diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt least. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surfaces, and vice versa. Stability trends apply to multiple atomic species, extending to complex adsorbates. DFT and experiments align, showing subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd's tendency to segregate, forming a Pd-enriched shell and a Pt-enriched core in PtPd nanoparticles, which directly influences catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, PtFe alloys develop a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, observed via in situ STM. This layer forms through Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shielding the alloy from corrosion and enhancing stability and catalytic properties for fuel cells. Ongoing research focuses on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This significant boost, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is critical for understanding the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research on Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring Au's presence on the surface, while Co is typically unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces due to thermodynamic unfavorability and kinetic prohibition. Studies show that ORR activity is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt catalysts, highlighting the critical role of surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability and surface structure. The addition of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, which improves oxygen reduction reaction rates and electrochemical stability. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective effect of 3d subsurface atoms, boosts catalytic performance by facilitating the removal of adsorbed species.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, altering adsorption properties through changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions, which significantly impacts catalytic activity and selectivity in bimetallic catalysts, highlighting the role of surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, profoundly affects physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop cheaper alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Notably, enhanced ORR activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation, impacting the catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing at elevated temperatures promotes the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies indicate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can affect the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly while efficiently dissociating H2, making them pivotal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing new NSAs that allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. Stability is assessed in two steps: considering composition in vacuum and then accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can influence surface composition, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be estimated by comparing specific energies. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of surface structure through improved nanofabrication techniques could optimize catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution from the doped element M influence Pt surface segregation energy. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals boosts Pt segregation to the surface, affecting catalytic properties, whereas replacing it with suppressing metals prevents Pt surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, notably Pt2Mo, exhibit stability influenced by oxygen coverage. Zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Surface vacancies with OTi bonding in Pt2Ti skin alloys are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials among Pt2M alloys. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, enhancing OR activity. The optimum Mo content in Pt2Mo is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high CO pressure and temperature, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increased Cu content. These findings open new avenues for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, oxygen's influence on subsurface 3d metal stability varies by crystal plane, affecting surface segregation and structural configuration. Pt(111) and Pt(100) exhibit differing subsurface stability under oxygen, impacting ORR activity and highlighting crystal plane significance in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, outperform monometallic catalysts due to their complex surface structures. Surface dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, highlighting the role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in stability and structural configuration.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, especially Pt-based alloys, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces, affecting structural dynamics and catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, segregation, and structure, notably in Pt-3d alloys. Reductive conditions favor 3d TMs in subsurface layers due to surface energy and size, while oxidizing conditions prompt surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-performance interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d metals doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces, which is reversible and significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys being 25 times more active than pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability at high temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly boosts catalytic activity, particularly in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, crucial for enhanced catalytic properties, has garnered substantial research interest. While studies often concentrate on vacuum conditions, understanding surface segregation under actual reaction environments with adsorbates is paramount. Adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, directly impacting catalytic efficiency, as demonstrated in Pt alloys where surface segregation closely relates to activity improvement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that re-alloying restores the original composition, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface, except for minor Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy disparities and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch enhances impurity inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, promoting segregation. Distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers of catalytic alloys significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, especially in Pt-based systems, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces, preventing O2 dissociation, a critical first step. These factors significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregating to the surface with oxygen. DFT predictions, supported by experiments, reveal higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures compared to surface configurations. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with subsurface structures preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface structures favored with oxygen. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions drive the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming enriched shells, while Pt accumulates in the core. This configuration, with Pd atoms favoring specific facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly affects catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, PtFe alloys develop a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles facilitate Fe dissolution and Pt surface rearrangement, forming a protective layer that enhances the alloy's catalytic properties for fuel cells. Ongoing research on CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer aims to further understand its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, notably at 50% Fe content, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, which is critical for enhancing catalytic properties in bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, leading to research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring thermodynamics, while Co's inability to enrich PtCo surfaces is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for catalytic properties. For instance, Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Extensive research on Pt alloys has identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions, highlighting the importance of surface segregation for catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals enhances surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces more than pure Pt, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability is inversely proportional to oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting the reaction rate. The stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. Surface structure in Pt-based alloy systems significantly influences adsorption properties, demonstrating sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. This enhanced activity is attributed to modified electronic structures, not just surface geometry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, particularly temperature, significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy with uniform stoichiometry across the surface. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, akin to noble metals, while facilitating easier H2 dissociation, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as evidenced by modified catalytic activity in experimental studies.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) lower Pt segregation energy, promoting surface Pt concentration, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd increase this energy, inhibiting Pt surface presence. Pt segregation is determined by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects, influenced by lattice mismatch and relative heat of solution to Pt3Ni, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, with zero oxygen coverage at working potentials crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to Pt d-band stabilization, hindering surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, achieving the best balance of stability and activity with an optimum Mo content of 30%.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, opening new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis in coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. Adsorbate bonding changes local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and ORR activity, with DFT predictions supporting these effects.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, outperform monometallics due to their complex surface structures, which are critical for catalytic properties. Surface structures dynamically adapt under varying redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, as observed in Pt-based bimetallics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are thermodynamically more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating a preference for subsurface configurations. Pt-terminated surfaces in Pt3d alloys show a thermodynamic preference, impacting fuel cell applications. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences, while oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in surface segregation and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs in Pt-based alloys prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This dynamic enhances catalytic properties, as atomic dispersed 3d TMs on Pt(111) surfaces exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, underscoring the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces their top surface segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation, and Pt-skin structures are active in hydrogenation reactions. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding stability under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts enhances catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), with Pt alloys outperforming pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces, formed by Pt segregating on the surface, exhibit reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the critical role of surface segregation. Adsorbates significantly influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is crucial for understanding their catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of Pd and Pt, with Pt experiencing slight loss. Stability disparities may be attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of surface atoms in the initial layers of Pt-based alloys significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface segregation phenomena.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining the absence of oxidation on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. Experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, subsurface structures exhibit higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, with Δεd used for alloy screening. Empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Oxygen binding energy differences in Pt3d systems are significant. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with oxygen. Experimental measurements verified subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantified activation barriers. AES results suggest two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show d-band center correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in PtPd nanoparticles. Simulations reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases from surfaces to the core, leading to Pt-enriched interiors. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) in the shell, significantly impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding new insights into electrode material study for fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions govern stability, surface segregation, and structure, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, Pt-Fe alloys exhibit enhanced electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially those with transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for stability and catalytic properties. PtAu alloys show strong Au segregation, unlike PtCo alloys where Co tends to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. This segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Modern studies have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, illustrating the importance of surface segregation for catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals in Pt-3d alloys enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, boosts catalytic performance by facilitating the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability compared to pure Pt, enhancing catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature significantly influences the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, transforming surface morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This alteration impacts adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects, with probe molecule adsorption being sensitive to local structure and composition, emphasizing the critical role of surface structure in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species predominates, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, is often replaced by cheaper metals in bimetallic alloys to enhance catalytic properties. These properties, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be improved through appropriate chemical composition. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties, especially in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0). Annealing above 600 K promotes the formation of nanophasic AgPt alloys, spreading across the surface with uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, underscoring the importance of reaction conditions in catalyst stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), especially Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen chemistry, binding atomic hydrogen weakly while easily dissociating H2, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising selective hydrogenation reactions for pharmaceutical compounds and easier hydrogen separation and storage. The stability and segregation behavior are reliable predictors of catalytic properties, with hydrogen chemistry playing a significant role in the catalytic performance of NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys, surface segregation of Pt is influenced by specific transition metals: V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This behavior is governed by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects, with lattice mismatch and heat of solution being pivotal. Replacing Ni with enhancing metals strengthens Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability under electrochemical conditions due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Adsorbed oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote 2). Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its high stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction compared to Pt, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quotes 9, 10, 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt, opening new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, supporting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal plane orientation influences subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting oxygen-induced segregation and ORR activity. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with ORR activity varying by crystal plane.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. These catalysts, with their enhanced surface complexity and second metal in various states, outperform monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering opportunities to fine-tune catalytic activity and selectivity under varying redox conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, especially Pt-based systems, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, and this effect is predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface-subsurface configuration, whereas strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate bimetallic catalyst stability and structure. Reductive conditions favor 3d TM subsurface placement due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1], while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands [2]. This dynamic impacts catalytic properties; for example, Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3], underscoring the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, as observed in various gases (1,2). Surface segregation, favoring Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to atomic radius differences (15), is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics (16), whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding (17). Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces (18). Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes (20).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts for applications such as oxygen reduction and CO preferential oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, significantly enhances catalytic activities. Pt-3d alloys exhibit superior oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt, directly attributed to surface segregation. Studying segregation under surface adsorption conditions is crucial, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and catalytic properties, impacting the alloys' performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal complete segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps show floating behavior, and a Boltzmann approach estimates Pt (Pd) dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences, illustrating the complex interplay between thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even under oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic arrangement critically affects catalytic activity, highlighting the significance of understanding segregation effects on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and CO adsorption impact bimetallic catalyst stability in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Contiguous Pt sites are vital for O2 dissociation in CO oxidation, explaining why oxidation doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of neighboring Pt sites, as density functional theory confirms. These factors significantly affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental evidence confirm the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with hydrogen, but predict segregation with oxygen. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments, with empirical equations predicting thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties of subsurface structures for reactions like dehydrogenation and ORR could halt reactions due to strong binding, while surface structures could prevent reactions by binding too weakly. AES results validate segregation behavior and activation barriers, bridging the gap between single crystal and polycrystalline substrates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the surface, forming a concentration gradient with Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. This structural configuration, with Pd atoms favoring (100) facets over (111) facets, significantly impacts catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, with potential cycles enhancing Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, as evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak. This has significant implications for catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, with ongoing research focusing on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe significantly boosts electrocatalytic activity, with a 25-fold increase at 50% Fe content over pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, addressing the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt, a critical cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity attributed to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer, enhancing stability and catalytic performance. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co tends to migrate inward, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Studies reveal that Au segregation is exothermic, favoring surface enrichment, whereas Co segregation is endothermic, inhibiting its surface presence.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance stability and protect against dissolution under adsorbate coverage by inducing a positive potential shift, leading to stronger adsorbate binding and improved catalytic properties like increased oxygen reduction reaction rate. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Probe molecule adsorption, sensitive to local structure and composition, demonstrates the influence of alloy formation on electronic interactions and ensemble composition, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalysts' performance under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species predominates at the surface, significantly impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have been studied as alternative catalysts. Surface segregation notably modifies catalytic activities, as evidenced by enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt for ORR. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects, as the surface geometry remains similar to non-segregated structures. Theoretical approaches, temperature, and the presence of adsorbates govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a surface-confined nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies suggest Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, impacting catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys, exhibit thermodynamic stability and structural dynamics influenced by hydrogen adsorption, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more efficiently, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the pure solute and host. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, suggesting precise control of metal catalyst surface structure could unlock unique catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence Pt surface segregation. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir reduce segregation energies, promoting Pt surface presence. Conversely, Ag, Au, and Pd doping leads to positive segregation energies, inhibiting Pt surface segregation. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects determine Pt segregation in Pt3Ni/M surfaces. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, notably clean surfaces, is enhanced by the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation (Quote 1). Oxygen coverage significantly influences stability and activity, with zero coverage at working potentials like 0.9 V being crucial for high performance (Quote 8). Pt2Mo stands out as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, offering a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than pure Pt (Quotes 9, 10). The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate OR on alloy surfaces, with Pt2Mo achieving an optimal balance of stability and activity (Quotes 17, 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes and oxygen exposure significantly affect 3d metal stability and subsurface dynamics, crucial for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. DFT calculations predict these effects, emphasizing the role of structural dynamics in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, featuring Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals, outperform monometallic counterparts due to their complex surface structures. Surface dynamics under varying reaction conditions offer tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, and Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) reside in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated by the oscillations in surface structure and composition at PtNi nanoparticle systems, with similar behaviors found in PtCu and PtCo nanoparticle catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and hydrogenation activity, attributed to electronic structure modification by subsurface Fe. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show enhanced activity compared to pure Pt, optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts notably boosts catalytic activities, especially in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to enhanced catalytic activity, has sparked extensive research. Notably, Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation directly linked to this enhancement. For instance, Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Studying surface segregation under surface adsorption is crucial, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and catalytic properties, significantly impacting the alloys' performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) show surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. Preparation steps for floating behavior were studied, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences. AES and STM confirm surface segregation, and the observed tendency aligns with surface energy and size mismatch factors.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's strongest adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference for CO binding at the surface. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    