Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic properties, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant, PtTiPt most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends are quantified using Δεd and BEP relationships, with empirical equations predicting stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen, verified experimentally, bridging the materials gap. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential, maintaining general stability trends.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation outcomes on PtPd nanoparticles highlight Pd segregation to the outer layers and a gradient Pt concentration, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms show a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, as evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak after potential cycles. Ongoing research is exploring the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is pivotal for designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells, not influenced by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt's role as a cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells is limited by slow ORR kinetics, but Pt-based alloys with transition metals exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co is unlikely to continuously segregate in PtCo alloys, as it is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation boosts catalytic properties, with Pt-skin surfaces showing a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Studies using experimental and computational techniques have characterized segregation trends and surface components in Pt alloy systems, revealing critical processes like interlayer migration and vacancy movement.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties and stability, protecting against dissolution, particularly under oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement inversely correlates with oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which improves catalytic performance, such as increased ORR rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting ORR rate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects, which are sensitive to local structure and composition. This transformation affects catalyst activity and selectivity, highlighting the importance of surface structure in influencing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop cheaper alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals are observed, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, governed by theoretical approaches, temperature, and the presence of adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into nanophasic AgPt alloys upon annealing above 600 K, confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads evenly, achieving uniform stoichiometry. High-temperature AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt, indicating that thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and surface segregation, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions and making them pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step procedure: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends but can quantitatively impact catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This is influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with promoting metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas suppressing metals prevent it, affecting the catalyst's stability and catalytic properties under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, the less reactive Cu in CuPt near-surface alloys segregates to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, contrary to expectations. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly impact subsurface 3d metal stability, especially under oxygen exposure, as predicted by DFT calculations. This affects surface segregation and structural dynamics, with direct implications for catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, highlighting the interplay between thermodynamics, reaction conditions, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d metals in Pt alloys show super catalytic activities. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, similar to reversible processes in monometallics, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity based on redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen-binding energy differences dictate surface composition, with hydrogen influencing subsurface admetal segregation. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, promoting surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with 3d TMs favoring subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, emphasizing the structure-reaction environment interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, as shown in [1] and [2]. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain, as explained in [4]. Oxygen adsorption, detailed in [6], can induce 3d transition metal segregation, whereas hydrogen's weak bonding, mentioned in [16], does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces, as discussed in [8]. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential as noted in [20], are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to electronic structure modifications by subsurface Fe, influencing surface species adsorption and reaction. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. For ORR, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, significantly exceeding pure Pt performance. This phenomenon, linked to enhanced catalytic activity, has been a focal point of extensive research. Studies often concentrate on vacuum conditions, yet the ORR and similar reactions occur in environments with adsorbates that can alter segregation trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Thus, understanding surface segregation under adsorbates is paramount for optimizing Pt-based alloys' catalytic performance, as evidenced by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys via STM and AES showed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original alloy composition was restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability variance is attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were crucial. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasted with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory elucidates oxygen adsorption's effect on surface segregation in Pt-based alloys, favoring the bridge site over the (100) step. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit surface segregation, whereas Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the first 23 layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of surface atomic distribution in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalyst stability and structure in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption on PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is inhibited on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists, PtTiPt succumbs most to oxygen-induced segregation. Activation barriers for Pt3dPt(100) are higher than Pt3dPt(111) for oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd screens bimetallic alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, surface MPtPt(111) with 0.5 ML O. Experimental results confirm segregation and activation barriers, bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structure in bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe bimetallic catalysts, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, enhances stability and shields the alloy from corrosion, significantly impacting catalytic properties in fuel cells. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and form a protective layer, crucial for electrocatalysis, with ongoing research focusing on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, leading to research into Pt-based alloys for improved activity. Surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin, enhances stability and catalytic performance. PtAu exhibits favorable Au segregation, unlike PtCo, where Co migration to the surface is inhibited. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR activity fourfold. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing critical surface defects and rearrangement processes. The segregation model explains the exothermic Au and endothermic Co migration, confirming Co's thermodynamic and kinetic segregation barriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly enhance surface stability and catalytic properties by altering adsorption characteristics. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved oxygen reduction reaction rates and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys still show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt, demonstrating the positive impact of 3d metals on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, impacts catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure modifications affect adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption, highlighting the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic properties. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is essential for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities due to surface segregation, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al., where Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The primary factor for enhanced activities is the modified electronic structure through surface segregation, not the surface geometry. Theoretical approaches and factors like temperature and adsorbates govern surface segregation, influencing the catalytic efficiency of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above a threshold temperature promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry across the surface. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, illustrating thermodynamic effects on catalyst structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that reduces oxygen and hydroxyl binding, boosting ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit enhanced electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics under varying reaction conditions, influenced by thermodynamic preferences. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, a crucial characteristic for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory calculations, which predict catalytic activity. Selected NSAs defy the norm by allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, particularly if they strongly bind to alloy components. Hydrogen's tendency to cause segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3d alloys, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it, affecting stability and catalytic properties under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. However, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is essential for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, and OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The stability of clean alloy surfaces is inferred from the Pt d-band structure, showing that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band. Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V), and the ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar reaction profile as on Pt. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces with implications for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen exposure and crystal planes impact subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability and ORR activity changes, highlighting crystal plane effects on bimetallic catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, offer greater surface complexity and superior catalytic performance over monometallics. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit exceptional catalytic activity. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering potential to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's effect modulated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals prefer subsurface locations due to surface energy and size, while oxidizing conditions induce their surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic affects catalytic properties; for instance, Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d metals show high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure and reaction environment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes under varying redox potential of environmental gases, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring Pt due to its larger atomic radius, is driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts display high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe exhibit higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction, with Fe49Pt51 alloys being 25 times more active. Stability under varying atmospheres is key for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is crucial for catalytic activities, significantly influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. For instance, the ORR was uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface of Pt3Co, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is thus vital for understanding the catalytic performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt occurs after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd segregating due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied, with a Boltzmann approach estimating Pt/Pd dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed, affecting catalytic activity. Surface structure, influenced by the first 23 layers and segregation, is crucial for catalytic performance in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like CO adsorption, impact bimetallic catalyst stability, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to surface-diffuse and bind CO. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation, unlikely on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to low Pt site ensemble probability. These factors influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, confirmed by DFT and experiments, show Δεd can screen alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in different conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen, verified by experimental measurements showing two segregation regions. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential, predicting preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms show a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, which influences catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys triggers the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by enhanced Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, boosting its catalytic performance in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior through CO adsorption and oxidation studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25x higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells, not interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limits due to sluggish ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity, thanks to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin. Au demonstrates strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co, which struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, contrasting with Co, which is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation notably boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Modern studies have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys, revealing the segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, interpreted kinetically by models.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, especially in oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to 3d subsurface atoms' protective role and correlates with oxygen adsorption strength. 3d metals' presence modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength, oxygen reduction reaction rate, and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates adsorbate removal, increasing reaction rate, and stability enhancement is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure and composition, as observed by STM, greatly influence adsorption properties, demonstrating probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure, even for active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, alters physical and chemical properties, notably enhancing the catalytic activities of alloys. Pt, a key catalyst in various reactions, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activities, especially when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role in this enhancement, as evidenced by studies showing that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified surface electronic structures and bond lengths.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like temperature, influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, impacting catalytic properties. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, forming elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature and a nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K, which spreads across the surface. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions alter structural dynamics and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit weak hydrogen binding akin to noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, pivotal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations facilitate the development of NSAs for these applications. Select NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising enhanced hydrogenation activity at lower temperatures, advantageous for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and potentially simplifying hydrogen separation and storage. Stability is evaluated through a two-step process: analyzing composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to attract alloy components they bind strongly to, and hydrogen's propensity to induce surface segregation can be gauged by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may vary from ideal models, but such deviations do not markedly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promote Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt surface segregation is determined by its segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with transition metals enhances Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation being a key parameter for OR activity. Only Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface metal stability. DFT predictions on Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen reveal impacts on catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, demonstrating crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity, crucial for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with complex surface structures, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based bimetallics show superior performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) structures are more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred in Pt3d alloys. Hydrogen affects surface segregation based on binding energies, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO), 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This structural dynamics enhances catalytic properties, as seen in Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs, which exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through treatments in various gases. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, occurs to relieve strain. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces segregation of 3d transition metals due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts display high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures exhibit high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show enhanced activity in oxygen reduction reactions compared to pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly enhances oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, as evidenced by studies showing four times higher reaction rates on Pt-skin surfaces. This phenomenon, closely tied to catalytic activity improvement, underscores the importance of studying surface segregation trends under varying reaction conditions, particularly under surface adsorption, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and thus catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys showed near-complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating strong surface segregation of Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may be due to Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt's (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with observed segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. Preparation steps for studying floating behavior included Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core). Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution, especially in the first 23 layers, significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, as the process requires neighboring Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures, critical for catalytic properties, is stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregates with oxygen, as DFT predicts and experiments confirm. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability trends apply to various atomic species and can be extended to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify segregation and activation barriers. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) has higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host shifts segregation potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Simulation results indicate Pd segregation to the outer layers and a gradient in Pt concentration from surface to core in PtPd nanoparticles, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe bimetallic catalysts, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and form a protective layer that enhances corrosion resistance, impacting catalytic properties in fuel cells. This finding, indicated by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak, suggests ongoing research on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer for electrocatalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, reaching a peak at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, significantly impacting the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, forming a Pt-skin, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit favorable Au segregation, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation unlikely. Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR rates fourfold compared to pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have characterized segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the importance of surface and subsurface composition. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is exothermic for PtAu but endothermic for PtCo, indicating thermodynamic and kinetic barriers for Co segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The incorporation of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt in various conditions. This stability boost, attributed to the protective effect of 3d subsurface atoms, improves catalytic properties, such as oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, enhancing catalytic performance. Additionally, the presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. Surface structure impacts adsorption, demonstrated by probe molecule sensitivity to local structure and composition, highlighting the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, dramatically affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has been replaced with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys, showing enhanced ORR activities, especially in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s study on Pt3Co alloys, where Pt-skin surfaces showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy. At room temperature, specific 2D-adislands form, and annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying through AgPt exchange, allowing the alloy to spread across the surface. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions influence catalyst stability and structure, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding, weakly attaching atomic hydrogen like noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, vital for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, boosting hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, advantageous for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by strongly binding to alloy components. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. Precise control of surface structure is crucial for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, suggesting advancements in nanofabrication techniques are needed. NSAs offer potential for selective hydrogenation reactions and improved hydrogen management.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-based alloys, doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. This behavior is governed by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects, crucial for understanding catalytic properties under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit altered stability influenced by oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms more resistant to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. This is due to less coordinated Pt atoms at the surface vacancy having more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms. The second layer atoms' exposure allows for stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo enhances stability at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation for OR activity. The stability hierarchy follows Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance. Low Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks activity, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, offering new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis. DFT calculations confirm these findings, suggesting implications for catalytic properties in applications like water-gas shift reactions. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with crystal plane effects critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic counterparts in catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface dynamics during reactions, influenced by gaseous environment changes, offer tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity by adjusting the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, particularly Pt-based alloys, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Hydrogen's binding energy influences the segregation of subsurface admetals, while oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This dynamic affects catalytic properties; Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metals' segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation and excel in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of high-performance catalysts. Surface configurations transform under varying conditions, affecting catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Fe-Pt alloys with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys exhibiting 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to activity improvement, is influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. Under adsorbate environments, segregation trends and surface composition change, impacting catalytic properties. Studying this under adsorption is critical for understanding Pt-based alloys' performance, as catalytic properties are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by surface composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies show that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt's (70%). Surface segregation preference is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D component distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows that oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces. Surface segregation is evident in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems, with Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displaying antisegregation even under oxygen adsorption. These phenomena significantly impact catalytic activity by altering surface atomic arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption on PtAu clusters at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. These predictions, verified experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, show PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, quantified using Δεd and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship, correlate DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface MPtPt(111) with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements confirm segregation and activation barriers. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation with Δεd beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations with 0.5 ML O.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulations demonstrate Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the core in PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and Pt surface rearrangement, creating a shield against corrosion. This layer's role in fuel cell catalysis, particularly CO adsorption and oxidation, is under active investigation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, Pt-Fe alloys exhibit enhanced electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Pt's sluggish kinetics in fuel cells limit efficiency, leading to research on Pt alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, particularly the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability. PtAu alloys show strong Au segregation, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, unlike PtCo alloys where Co is unable to enrich the surface. Pt-skin surfaces uniquely activate the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), quadrupling reaction rates compared to pure Pt. The segregation process for Au on Pt(111) surfaces is exothermic, making it thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co segregating to clean Pt(111) surfaces is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties and stability, especially in oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which enhances catalytic properties like increased ORR rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects modify adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) reveals surface structure and component distribution, crucial for understanding adsorption properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, is crucial in materials science, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. These alloys, especially when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activities due to surface segregation. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation in catalytic enhancement. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving forces behind this phenomenon, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Under varying reaction conditions, particularly temperature, the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts like Pt-based alloys are influenced. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to nanophasic alloy formation confined to the surface. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs uniquely permitting weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers. This promises high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed in vacuum and with hydrogen adsorption effects, and adsorbates preferentially bind to alloy components they strongly attach to. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution determine the extent of Pt segregation, with stronger effects observed for V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, and prohibited effects for Ag, Au, and Pd. This impacts the stability, structure, and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of clean Pt-based alloy surfaces is enhanced due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in their absence. Pt2Mo stands out among Pt2M alloys for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR), with OOH dissociation being a key parameter for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo contents may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo contents destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes influence oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation dynamics, affecting subsurface stability. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen, impacting ORR activity, highlighting crystal plane variations' role in surface segregation and structural dynamics, crucial for catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals in the subsurface, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, offering advantages over monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with 3d TMs favoring subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and size [1], and segregating to the surface under oxidizing conditions to form oxidized islands [2]. This impacts catalytic properties, as atomic dispersed 3d TMs on Pt surfaces enhance CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3], highlighting the structure-environment interplay's significance for catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metals' segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Surface structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), exceeding pure Pt performance. This phenomenon, linked to enhanced catalytic activity, has been a focal point of research. Studying surface segregation under adsorption conditions is crucial, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and catalytic properties, affecting the performance of Pt-based alloys in real-world applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys via STM and AES showed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with near-complete restoration of the original composition. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following the order Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to lower Pd content, 2D component distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) display segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, significantly impacts catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation, explaining why oxidation is hindered on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These factors influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic properties, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantifiable using Δεd and BEP relationships, predicting preferred configurations in different environments. Surface structures may bind intermediates too strongly or weakly, affecting reaction progress. These insights are applicable to polycrystalline substrates and can be extended to other bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Simulation results indicate Pd segregation to the outer layers and increased Pt concentration towards the core in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting catalytic properties in fuel cells. Ongoing studies explore the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer through CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for understanding the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts under varying conditions, impacting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, crucial for PEM fuel cells. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, significantly impacts stability and catalytic efficiency. Au demonstrates strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable and Co tends to migrate inward, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. This process is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo. Pt-skin surfaces have a four times higher ORR rate than pure Pt, as observed by Stamenkovic et al. Surface segregation is critical for Pt-based alloys, with studies characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The dissolution of metal atoms creates defects, affecting the rearrangement process, and the segregation model interprets these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems enhance surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, improves catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting catalytic performance. Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability under adsorbate coverage, underlining their protective role.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, altering adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects, which changes adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru. This affects catalyst activity and selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to surface structure and composition, crucial for catalytic properties in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts catalytic activities in bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some Pt, enhancing catalytic properties through appropriate structural configurations. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface electronic structure and bond length. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. An example is the formation of elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 on a Pt(1 0 0) surface at room temperature, which transform into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing above 600 K. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structural dynamics and stability, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates influence surface composition, and hydrogen's role in surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, with experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs showing modified catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, surface segregation of Pt is enhanced by V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir due to surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects. Conversely, Ag, Au, and Pd suppress Pt surface segregation, preventing it from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation (Quote 1). Oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions significantly impacts stability, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt (Quote 8). Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for high activity and stability. Molybdenum (Mo) in Pt2M alloys forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9), with Pt2Mo having a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OR activity (Quote 10). The Pt2Mo skin alloy, with a 30% Mo content, achieves the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 20). Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting surface segregation and structure. Oxygen's role in this process is predicted by DFT calculations, showing varied stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100). This directly influences oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, highlighting the importance of crystal plane effects on bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties due to surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt alloys show superior performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes under redox shifts, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells prefer Pt-terminated surfaces, indicating thermodynamic stability. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with 3d TMs favoring subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces enriched with atomic dispersed 3d TMs are highly active for CO oxidation via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface, potentially leading to their oxidation and encapsulation of Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated in PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu nanoparticle systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Surface configurations transform under varying conditions, impacting catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show enhanced activity compared to pure Pt, with specific alloys demonstrating significantly higher activity in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly impacts catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys, for instance, exhibit four times higher ORR rates, highlighting segregation's role in activity improvement. Studying Pt alloys under real reaction conditions, with adsorbates that can modify surface segregation and composition, is crucial for understanding their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys via STM and AES reveal significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability is influenced by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru: 1.31.6 eVatom1, Pt: 1 eVatom1, Pd: 0.8 eVatom1) and size mismatch. Observed floating behavior suggests Pt (Pd) dissolution probability in the subsurface region, estimated by a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir displays antisegregation even with oxygen. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, critically impacts catalytic activity in the initial layers of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics in Pt-based systems are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Contiguous Pt sites are crucial for CO oxidation, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, remaining stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but prone to 3d atom segregation with oxygen, as DFT predicts and experiments confirm. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, indicates subsurface structures are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface structures are favored with oxygen. Δεd can screen alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in various conditions. The significant difference in binding energies underscores the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements confirm predicted segregation and activation barriers, revealing two segregation regions. DFT predictions apply to polycrystalline substrates, showing all Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends indicate thermodynamic stability correlation with Δεd extends beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the outer layers, creating a monotonic Pt concentration increase from surface to bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times more effective than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt alloys, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, is pivotal. PtAu alloys show strong Au segregation, thermodynamically favored, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic Co process, indicating Au's thermodynamic advantage. For PtCo, Co atoms prefer migrating to the second layer, hindering continuous Co segregation. Surface segregation boosts catalytic activity, as Pt-skin surfaces display ORR rates four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys, revealing the segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration. The exothermic Au and endothermic Co segregation cycles illustrate thermodynamic and kinetic factors influencing surface composition.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) changes surface adsorption properties, enhancing stability in Pt-skin surfaces of Pt-3d alloys under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. 3d metals modify electronic and geometric properties, altering adsorbate binding strength, which boosts catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction rate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects demonstrate probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition, crucial for understanding catalytic implications in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cheaper alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures cause mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, affecting structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique properties, binding atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, making them crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. The stability of NSAs can be assessed using a two-step procedure: analyzing composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen separation/storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamics and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it, influenced by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, emphasizing the importance of zero oxygen coverage for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for oxygen reduction activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption drives the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting the catalyst's activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT predicts oxygen's effect on subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), crucial for ORR activity, highlighting crystal plane significance in bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity based on redox potential, as observed in monometallic catalysts. This dynamic nature is critical to their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit varied stability and surface segregation under different reaction conditions. Reductive conditions favor 3d TMs in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, particularly PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to its larger atomic radius, is driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation, whereas oxygen's strong bonding can induce 3d metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential changes, significantly impact catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts display high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show enhanced activity compared to pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions. Understanding surface structural configurations and stability under various conditions is essential for optimizing Fe-Pt structures in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES confirmed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability differences are attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by higher surface energies and larger size of Pt and Pd compared to Ru. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying, indicates a probability for Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), likely due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen. Surface atomic distribution in the first 23 layers of catalytic alloys significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of segregation effects on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic factors and reaction conditions shape the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as DFT calculations confirm. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    