Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate under oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. This stability trend, confirmed on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, correlates with d-band center differences, enabling bimetallic alloy screening. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal that Pd segregates to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing from surface to core. This Pd segregation, particularly its preference for (100) facets over (111) facets in the shell, significantly impacts the catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, PtFe alloys form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create this protective layer, shielding the alloy from corrosion. This layer significantly enhances the alloy's catalytic performance in fuel cells, as ongoing research on CO adsorption and oxidation demonstrates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure, affecting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe at 50% content enhances electrocatalytic activity 25-fold, attributed to the presence of 5d-vacancies on the surface, demonstrating the significant role of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, driving research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, forming a Pt-skin, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance, as seen in PtAu alloys where Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation unlikely due to both thermodynamic unfavorability and kinetic prohibition. Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR rates fourfold compared to pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface segregation dynamics. The exothermic process in PtAu and endothermic in PtCo systems underscores thermodynamic influences on segregation, providing insights into the complex interplay between surface structure and catalytic properties in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance stability under clean and oxygen-covered conditions by altering electronic and geometric properties, acting protectively to improve catalytic performance through better adsorbed species removal and increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure and composition greatly influence adsorption properties for CO and D, demonstrating sensitivity to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, is critical in materials science and dramatically alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on annealed Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with theoretical approaches elucidating the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and temperature significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems like Ag80Pt20 adislands on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands form, while annealing above a threshold promotes alloying, creating a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin enhances electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen chemistry on near-surface alloys (NSAs) is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes, with some NSAs binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. NSAs' stability can be evaluated by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates, particularly hydrogen, can induce surface segregation by binding strongly to alloy components. Selected NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, boosting hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, advantageous for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and hydrogen separation and storage. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is needed to fully leverage NSAs' unique catalytic properties, potentially through advanced nanofabrication techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation by lowering energies, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd hinder it by raising energies, altering catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution, but O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable and active alloy at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is key for high activity and stability. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a crucial role in the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces, with Pt2Mo achieving the best balance of stability and activity, having an optimum Mo content of 30%.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes' influence on oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation dictates subsurface stability, impacting ORR activity. DFT calculations reveal this dynamic, highlighting crystal planes' role in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity, with the second metal in various states, pivotal for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region showcase superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is pivotal, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) shows greater thermodynamic stability than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum upon annealing, and Pt3d alloys often exhibit a thermodynamically favored Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, prompting 3d metals to segregate to the surface, as observed in Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, illustrating tunable surface structures via gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect the segregation process, whereas oxygen adsorption can induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize these metals, leading to encapsulation of Pt surfaces by 3d metal oxides. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Notably, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity in ORR than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, critically influences catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon significantly alters catalytic properties, with surface segregation under adsorbates playing a key role in activity improvement. Remarkably, the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface of Pt3Co alloys, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is essential for optimizing catalytic applications, as it affects surface composition and electronic structure, determining catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) reveal that re-alloying nearly restores original composition, with Pd and Pt segregated to the surface, except for minor Pt loss. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Structural dynamics during preparation steps and probability of subsurface dissolution were observed. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys influences surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure for Pt-based alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces, lacking neighboring Pt sites, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, correlating with kinetic barriers via BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship. Empirical equations predict stability trends in bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) configurations preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, surface MPtPt(111) favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements verify predicted segregation and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends show correlation of thermodynamic stability with d-band center difference applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. General stability trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms show a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications, as indicated by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak. Ongoing studies are exploring the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe at a 50:50 ratio enhances electrocatalytic activity 25-fold over pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, making it ideal for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-skin surfaces, formed by Pt atom segregation, enhance oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, crucial for PEM fuel cells. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au surface segregation, a thermodynamically favorable exothermic process, unlike PtCo alloys where Co migration to the surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends and surface/subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the pivotal role of metal atom dissolution and rearrangement in the segregation process. Pt-skin surfaces have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting surface segregation's role in ORR activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals significantly enhance surface stability, especially in oxygen-covered conditions, by strengthening oxygen adsorption and facilitating the removal of adsorbed species, thus increasing the reaction rate. This stability enhancement and the alteration of electronic and geometric properties by 3d metals improve catalytic properties, such as the oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) into surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic interactions are pivotal, highlighting the role of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for active metals like Ru and Pt, as probe molecule adsorption is sensitive to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic properties due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For example, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the unique activity of segregated surfaces. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the key factor for catalytic enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For example, Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) at room temperature forms 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy that evenly spreads across the surface, highlighting the role of thermodynamics in structural dynamics and catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. This Pt-skin surface boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, critical for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them pivotal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with exceptional NSAs enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by attracting alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but this doesn't significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as confirmed by experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs showing modified catalytic activity. Improved nanofabrication techniques could offer better control over metal catalyst surface structure, maximizing the catalytic properties of NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promotes Pt surface segregation, whereas noble metals (Ag, Au, Pd) suppress it. Segregation is determined by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, influenced by the doped elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. However, zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, like 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation. Pt2Mo is notably stable at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage significantly impact the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on alloy surfaces. An optimum Mo content of 30% in PtxMo alloys achieves the best balance of stability and activity, as a lower Mo content may offer higher stability but lacks improved activity at 0.9 V, while a higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high pressure and temperature, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys counterintuitively pulls less reactive Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond. This impacts catalyst activity and selectivity, offering new possibilities for selective engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, especially in water-gas shift reactions. DFT calculations confirm Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increased Cu content. The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, affecting the stability of the alloy surface. These findings extend to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, highlighting the potential for dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly affect subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), with crystal planes influencing ORR activity, governed by oxygen-induced segregation's thermodynamics and kinetics.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced stability and catalytic properties under varying reaction conditions. Their complex surface structures, featuring subsurface 3d transition metals, outperform monometallic catalysts. Surface dynamics, influenced by redox potential, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the superiority of Pt-skin surfaces in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNi alloys prefer subsurface PtNiPt(111) over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in fuel cells. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's effect contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, prompting 3d metals to segregate to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, notably in Pt-based alloys. Reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) push 3d TMs into subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii to relieve strain, with Pt's larger radius contributing significantly. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals' surface segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes, reversible based on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impact catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Surface Pt's electronic structure is modified by subsurface Fe, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, vital for designing high-performance catalysts. Surface transformations under varying conditions significantly affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and CO preferential oxidation, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly boosts catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. Under reaction conditions, adsorbates influence segregation trends, altering surface composition and catalytic properties. Studying these dynamics is crucial for understanding and optimizing Pt alloys' catalytic performance, as evidenced by enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys due to surface segregation and the example of Pt3Co alloy showing improved ORR activity on the Pt-skin surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that re-alloying restores original composition, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd (44%) versus Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing from Ru(0001) to Pd(111). Size mismatch enhances Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, promoting segregation. The floating behavior, observed through four preparation steps, suggests a probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region, estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption on Pt-based alloys favors the bridge site over the (100) step, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core). Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, while CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the lack of neighboring Pt sites, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt least. Stability trends, confirmed by DFT and experiments, use Δεd for alloy screening. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties. In PtPd nanoparticles, simulations reveal Pd segregates to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates in the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, influencing catalytic performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "In PtFe bimetallic catalysts, varying reaction conditions induce the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed under in situ electrochemical STM. This process enhances Fe dissolution and Pt surface rearrangement, leading to a stable Pt layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, improving its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior through CO adsorption and oxidation studies, shedding light on its role in enhancing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to the critical 5d-vacancy on the surface, essential for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, particularly in Pt-skin formation, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits favorable thermodynamics for surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where surface migration is kinetically prohibitive. Studies show ORR is more active on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The contrasting behaviors of Au and Co highlight the thermodynamic and kinetic factors influencing bimetallic catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions enhance stability and catalytic properties. 3d metals improve surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, particularly in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is due to the strong binding of 3d subsurface atoms to the Pt layer, increasing adsorbate binding strength and boosting the oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates adsorbed species removal, further enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably annealing temperature, influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Annealing transforms surface morphology, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects upon alloy formation. Surface structure and composition significantly affect adsorption properties, influencing catalytic activity and selectivity, as demonstrated by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) showing probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Alternative Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have been studied. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through chemical composition modifications. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. Stamenkovic et al. found that ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, and annealing above 600 K promotes alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands. With sufficient Ag, a nanophasic AgPt alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, indicating a substantial impact of reaction conditions on catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as evidenced by their enhanced performance under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), particularly Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen binding and dissociation properties akin to noble metals but with enhanced H2 dissociation, critical for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes (Quote 2). Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. NSA stability is assessed in two steps: composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects (Quote 3). Adsorbates, notably hydrogen, can induce surface segregation, with the tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences (Quote 5). Despite deviations from ideal models, NSAs show high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage (Quote 23), as supported by experimental studies. This new class of NSAs could assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for pharmaceutical compounds, and could potentially permit easier hydrogen separation and storage (Quote 24).", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promote Pt surface segregation, whereas noble metals (Ag, Au, Pd) inhibit it, influenced by Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, crucial for catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation (1,11). Oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than a perfect surface (2). In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding (6). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (9). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity (10). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (19,20). Low Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity (21).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly influence subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen, affecting surface segregation and ORR activity. DFT predictions highlight subsurface stability variations in Pt(111) and Pt(100), crucial for ORR performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit superior stability and catalytic performance over monometallics due to complex surface structures. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals show enhanced catalytic activity. Surface structures dynamically adapt to reaction conditions, offering tunable catalytic properties under varying redox potentials.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is pivotal, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, underscoring Eseg's role in surface composition. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Hydrogen's effect on surface segregation is governed by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage, as predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor impact, while strong ones, like N or O, can significantly alter surface configurations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure in Pt-3d alloys. Reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) push 3d TMs to subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs are highly active for CO oxidation, demonstrating the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Pt's larger atomic radius promotes surface segregation to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface, potentially oxidizing them in oxidative environments and encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. These reversible mass transport processes significantly impact catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons, as evidenced by a 100% selectivity for CO oxidation [1] and high activity for hydrogenation [2]. The enhanced catalytic properties are attributed to the subsurface Fe modifying the electronic structure of surface Pt [3], affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, crucial for designing high-performance catalysts [4]. Oxidative conditions can destabilize Pt-skin, leading to Fe surface segregation. Different reactions yield varying Fe-Pt configurations, impacting catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction, where Fe49Pt51 alloys with a pure Pt top layer showed 25 times higher activity than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-skin surfaces, boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, outperforming pure Pt by four times. This catalytic enhancement, as observed in Pt3Co alloys, underscores the role of surface composition. Adsorbates significantly influence surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying these dynamics under reaction conditions is paramount for optimizing Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, except for a slight Pt loss. The stability of the surface alloy is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with the observed segregation of Pt and Pd. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) substrate favors surface segregation, providing additional driving force. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) can be attributed to differences in Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding characteristics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, crucially shaped by the first 23 layers' atomic arrangement, significantly affects catalytic activity in alloys, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's role in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These dynamics significantly affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen, consistent across environments. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental results correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, highlighting the need to understand stability in reacting environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the surface, creating a Pt concentration gradient from surface to bulk, with implications for catalytic properties. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, influencing the nanoparticles' catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, develops from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shielding the alloy from corrosion and enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cells. The protective mechanism is evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak, indicating increased Fe dissolution and Pt surface rearrangement. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior in CO adsorption and oxidation, offering new insights for electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, highlighting the role of structural dynamics under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) limits catalytic efficiency in PEM fuel cells, but Pt-based alloys with transition metals show enhanced activity due to surface segregation. A pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer of these alloys, boosting ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. Au in PtAu alloys segregates thermodynamically favorably, evidenced by an exothermic process, whereas Co in PtCo alloys migrates to the second layer, making continuous segregation unlikely due to thermodynamic unfavorability and kinetic prohibition. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects and interlayer migration in the rearrangement process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilize Pt-skin surfaces, and protect against Pt dissolution under varying conditions. They modify electronic and geometric properties, increasing reaction rates by facilitating the removal of adsorbed species, which boosts catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly impacting catalyst activity and selectivity by altering adsorption properties. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects highlight the critical role of surface structure in catalytic properties, underscoring the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt for ORR, attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into a nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K. AES studies confirm the mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting temperature's role in alloy composition and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, segregation, and structure under varying thermodynamic conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: initial vacuum composition analysis followed by hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation is reliably estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between pure solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends, suggesting improved nanofabrication techniques could enhance catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, third transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation, enhancing structural dynamics and catalytic properties, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it, affecting performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which reduces Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in pure Pt. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as particularly stable at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OOH dissociation in OR activity. The optimum content of Mo in Pt2Mo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This behavior, rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, opens new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis. The findings apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, impacting the activity and selectivity of the catalyst, as seen in the water-gas shift reaction. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, explaining the onset of bulk migration of Cu and the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becoming significant at 460 K, where the stable CO-induced surface alloy forms and breaks up.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, enhances subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict increased ORR activity due to crystal plane effects on subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100).", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, outperform monometallic catalysts due to greater surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically adjust to reaction conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity by responding to the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating thermodynamic preferences. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen and oxygen. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving segregation. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces, affecting their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs in Pt-3d alloys prefer subsurface layers due to surface energy and size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs are highly active for CO oxidation via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the critical interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity for hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show enhanced activity compared to pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys being 25 times more active in oxygen reduction. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and stability under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, surpassing pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to enhanced catalytic activity, has been a central focus in research. Studies often examine surface structures under vacuum, but adsorbates in operational environments can alter segregation trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is crucial for optimizing catalytic performance, as evidenced by the unique activity of Pt-skin surfaces in the ORR, where the reaction rate is four times higher than for pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys on Ru(0001) with Pt and Pd show significant segregation post re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Lower Pd content impacts stability. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring larger guest metals like Pt and Pd due to tensile stress in the outer Ru layer. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30 contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56, possibly due to Pd content and bonding differences, confirming the observed tendency for segregation of Pt and Pd.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces favors the bridge site over the (100) step, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely resists segregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These insights are critical for understanding catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions, confirmed experimentally, show Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregate with oxygen, highlighting condition-dependent stability. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures with optimal binding properties may halt reactions on surface structures, impacting catalytic performance. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations, revealing the complexity of bimetallic stability under reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions drive the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, enhancing stability and catalytic properties in fuel cells by shielding the alloy from corrosion. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and solidify the protective layer, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Ongoing research explores CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer for further insights into its electrocatalytic behavior, as indicated by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak after potential cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for understanding catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions, particularly in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to surface segregation, leading to a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer and enhanced stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable, while Co is typically unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. Surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation is crucial for Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have revealed the components of surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloy systems, and the segregation process involves interlayer migration of impurity atoms, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetics viewpoint.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) enhances the stability of Pt-skin surfaces in Pt-3d alloys, especially in oxygen-covered conditions, due to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. This stability enhancement correlates with oxygen adsorption strength and facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, enhancing catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation leading to a Pt-skin layer is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms isolated Pt islands into alloys, significantly changing adsorption properties and affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. This transformation influences the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, demonstrating the critical role of surface structure in catalytic properties, even for active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cheaper alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where the catalytic properties, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation, impacting the catalytic activities of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Temperature significantly influences the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, altering the catalyst's structure and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind hydrogen weakly and dissociate H2 easily, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. NSA stability is assessed in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can influence surface components, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation is estimated by comparing energies. Deviations from idealized NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, but precise control of surface structure is needed for optimal catalytic properties. Recent innovations in nanofabrication techniques suggest practical strategies for metals may be forthcoming.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas noble metals such as Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. This is governed by Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni, with transition metals enhancing Pt segregation and noble metals preventing it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, OTi bonding at surface vacancies is more stable than OPt bonding, due to O's anion-like nature. Pt2Mo stands out among Pt2M alloys for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for activity. Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high CO pressure and temperature, Cu is surprisingly pulled to the surface of CuPt alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm these observations, showing increased CO binding energy and weakening of the PtCO bond with more Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane variations under oxygen exposure significantly influence subsurface 3d metal stability, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. Oxygen-induced segregation and crystal plane effects on ORR activity are critical for understanding catalytic performance under different reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic properties over monometallics. Their surface structure, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, dynamically changes, particularly under varying redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, and Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. The segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor impact, while strong ones, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Surface Pt's electronic structure is modified by subsurface Fe, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, vital for designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability decreases under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surface, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine Fe-Pt surface configurations, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as Fe49Pt51 alloys exhibit 25 times higher activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts notably boosts catalytic activities, with Pt alloys showing enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. The Pt-skin structure, produced by Pt segregating on the surface, exhibits a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the unusual catalytic activity. Studies have primarily focused on vacuum conditions, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can influence segregation trends and surface composition, making the study of Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption critical for optimizing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal complete segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%) explains stability differences. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd over Ru. Observed floating behavior suggests a probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the initial layers of catalytic alloys significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation and atomic distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, especially in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility at high Au compositions favor its surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These factors significantly affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen triggers 3d atom surface segregation. Experimental results confirm higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures, with PtNiPt showing greatest resistance and PtTiPt being most susceptible. Stability trends, verified by correlating d-band center differences and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship, predict thermodynamic stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences emphasize the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures with optimal binding properties may halt reactions on surface structures. Experimental measurements validate subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences beyond Pt3d alloys, maintaining preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "In PtPd bimetallic catalysts, Pd segregates to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed in 0.1 M HClO4 solution via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. The steady CV resulting from potential cycles indicates the formation of this protective layer, as evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process peak. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding new insights for electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, underscores the role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially with transition metals, exhibit superior oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity compared to pure Pt, addressing kinetic limitations in PEM fuel cells. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is pivotal for enhanced stability. Au demonstrates strong segregation in PtAu alloys, making the process thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co is unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. Surface Co atoms tend to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely due to thermodynamic and kinetic barriers. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The pathway from an impurity atom in the second layer to the Pt(111) surface is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo systems, according to the segregation model.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals under oxygen adsorption conditions enhance surface stability by forming a protective Pt-skin layer, which improves catalytic properties by facilitating the removal of adsorbed species and delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, altering adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions, which significantly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition reveals the critical role of surface structure in adsorption properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, dramatically alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, notably enhancing ORR activities in Pt-3d metal alloys. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures, not just surface geometry. Theoretical approaches and factors like temperature and adsorbates govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Temperature dictates the growth of silver on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, forming 2D-adislands at room temperature and promoting AgPt exchange above 600 K, leading to nanophasic alloying confined to the surface layer. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, emphasizing the pivotal role of reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes due to their exceptional hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties. Density functional theory facilitates the development of NSAs for these applications, with select NSAs enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. Stability is evaluated in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, particularly when hydrogen's tendency is assessed by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, potentially aiding in selective hydrogenation reactions and hydrogen separation and storage, crucial for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen management.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt3Ni (111) bimetallic catalysts, Pt surface segregation is enhanced by V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir doping, and inhibited by Ag, Au, and Pd doping, determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation (Quote [1]). Oxygen adsorption facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote [2]). Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding at surface vacancies are more stable than those with OPt bonding (Quote [6]). Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability (Quote [8]). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote [9]). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with the barrier to OOH dissociation being a key parameter for OR activity (Quote [10]). Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V) (Quote [14]). The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote [19]). Pt2Mo skin alloys with 30% Mo content achieve higher stability and activity than other compositions (Quote [20]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, suggesting new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems varies with crystal plane orientation, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, which also depends on crystal plane.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallics, with their enhanced surface complexity, are crucial for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the thermodynamic superiority of subsurface PtNiPt(111) over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells exhibit a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, promoting 3d metal surface segregation. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, whereas strong electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, driving surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, particularly PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, affecting catalytic properties. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain. Oxygen, not hydrogen, can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, contribute to structural dynamics, impacting catalytic performance. These findings are crucial for understanding real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's effect on surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly enhances catalytic activities, particularly in the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has attracted extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, understanding segregation under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Investigating Pt-based alloys under these conditions is essential for optimizing their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) via STM and AES showed surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability is influenced by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring inclusion of larger guest metals in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied to understand floating behavior. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences, confirming the observed tendency for segregation of Pt and Pd.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at bridge sites over (100) steps in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, triggering segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles forming.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends predict subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, correlating with thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. General stability trends predict the same thermodynamically preferred configuration across environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in PtPd alloys. Pd tends to segregate to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and solidify the protective layer, as indicated by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak. Ongoing research explores the layer's electrocatalytic behavior in CO adsorption and oxidation, providing new insights for electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, electrocatalytic activity is maximized at 50% Fe content, achieving a 25-fold enhancement over pure Pt. This superior performance is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, critical for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to the exploration of Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, particularly the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, unlike Co, which is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to both thermodynamic unfavorability and kinetic prohibition. These insights highlight the importance of surface segregation for catalytic properties in Pt-based alloys, with Au's exothermic segregation contrasting Co's endothermic process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance Pt-skin surface stability, protecting against oxygen adsorption and improving electrochemical stability. This enhancement, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, leads to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution and facilitating the removal of adsorbed species, thus increasing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity through changes in ensemble and electronic interactions. CO and D adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition changes underscores the role of surface dynamics in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the modified electronic structure through surface segregation, not the geometric effect.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and temperature significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. As an example, Ag adislands on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces transform with temperature: elongated 2D-adislands form at room temperature, and annealing above 600 K promotes alloying at the perimeter, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies indicate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at high temperatures, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, boosting oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit enhanced electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding, weakly binding atomic hydrogen like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these processes. Selected NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, suitable for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface they bind strongly to. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation by reducing energy, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd hinder it by increasing energy. These effects on Pt segregation, influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution from the dopant, significantly impact catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution, as inferred by the Pt d-band structure. However, oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions can lower alloy stability compared to pure Pt. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo exhibiting a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, enhancing OR activity. The optimal content of Mo in Pt2Mo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity, surpassing pure Pt and other alloys.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, opening new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting potential applications in a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, particularly in water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes' impact on oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems affects subsurface stability and ORR activity, with DFT predictions highlighting plane-specific effects on catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with a second metal in various states, offer superior surface structural complexity and catalytic properties over monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts featuring Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region exhibit exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, offering opportunities to optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells show a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, alter binding energy significantly, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs in Pt-based alloys migrate to subsurface layers due to surface energy and size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation and formation of oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, demonstrating the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to its larger atomic radius, is common and tunable by gas treatments. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. In oxidative conditions, 3d metals oxidize, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Hydrogen presence does not affect the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases, contribute to surface structure oscillations, crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rates beyond pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys demonstrate quadrupled ORR rates, underscoring segregation's role in activity enhancement. Studying segregation under adsorbates is pivotal, as they influence surface composition and catalytic properties, affecting alloy surface geometry and electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies confirm significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu and PtRu alloys on Ru(0001) after re-alloying, with near-complete restoration of original composition, indicating strong segregation to the surface. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) favors surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen preferentially adsorbs at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even in the presence of oxygen. The arrangement of atoms in the initial layers of the catalyst surface significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically shape bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility at high compositions favor its surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters, as density functional theory confirms. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, as it requires neighboring Pt sites. These factors significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    