Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predictions, verified experimentally, show these structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher for subsurface Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). The stability trend, confirmed on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Δεd can screen bimetallic alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. The stability trend applies to various bimetallic systems and environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd atoms segregate to the outer layers, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Under specific conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the underlying alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is explained by the 5d-vacancy of the surface, illustrating the influence of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems, and their consequent catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, crucial for PEM fuel cells. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the outer layer, significantly affects stability and catalytic efficiency. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, while Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic process in PtAu contrasts with the endothermic process in PtCo, indicating Au's thermodynamic preference for the surface. For PtCo, Co atoms prefer migrating to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. This segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive for Co on clean Pt(111) surfaces. Studies confirm that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation's role is supported by modern experimental and computational techniques, revealing trends in Pt alloy systems. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, follows the opposite order of oxygen adsorption strengths. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, leading to enhanced catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys still show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation affects the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are observed. The study highlights the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. It notably modifies catalytic activities, as seen in Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, and the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., who found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects, as the surface bond length deviation is minimal. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For instance, the growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of the Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. This alloy spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. At elevated temperatures, there is some mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, indicating that reaction conditions can affect the catalyst's properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit a strong Pt surface segregation tendency, forming a Pt monolayer that induces weaker O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying conditions, impacting catalytic properties. NSAs bind hydrogen weakly like noble metals but dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed by considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for pharmaceuticals and hydrogen storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models affect quantitative properties but not main trends. Advanced nanofabrication techniques could optimize NSA structures for catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys like Pt-3d alloys exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a critical role in facilitating the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, suggesting new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis in Pt-based systems, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting ORR activity. Crystal planes significantly influence subsurface stability and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit greater surface complexity, with the second metal present in various states, crucial for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure changes dynamically during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are more thermodynamically stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO), 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common and can be modulated by gas treatments. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces promotes 3d transition metal segregation, while hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by the redox potential of gases. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, as seen in PROX reactions [1]. Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2], with unique catalytic properties attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient, cost-effective catalysts [4]. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt, closely linked to surface segregation. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence these trends and change surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. This research is essential for understanding the performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability of these alloys is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch between guest and host metals. Larger guest metals (Pt, Pd) favor inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying, indicates that Pt and Pd can dissolve in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show segregation, while Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. DFT calculations confirm Pt's thermodynamic advantage in binding CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These insights are pivotal for understanding catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is pivotal for their catalytic performance. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. Experimentally, this was verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends were confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, with Δεd used to screen alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability was considered with various atomic species, extending to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements support these predictions, revealing two segregation regions and bridging the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show the correlation of stability with d-band center differences applies beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for the alloy's catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, with ongoing research focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-Fe alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not solely to interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells is improved by Pt-based alloys, which exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring Pt-skin formation and enhancing stability, while Co is less likely to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. The segregation process is thermodynamically favorable for Au but unfavorable for Co, affecting the continuous segregation of Co. Surface segregation is crucial for the catalytic activity of Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s findings that Pt-skin surfaces have a four times higher reaction rate than pure Pt. Extensive studies using modern techniques have characterized the surface and subsurface regions of Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface segregation in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both clean and under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from the alloys still exhibit enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This process significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. These changes affect catalytic activity and selectivity. Stepwise annealing of submonolayer Pt-covered Ru(0001) surfaces to form equilibrated PtxRu1-x/Ru(0001) monolayer alloys reveals that surface structure profoundly influences adsorption properties. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are observed. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to find alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. These alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, show enhanced ORR activities, notably when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces on annealed Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length of alloy systems. For Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1), the surface bond length deviation after Pt segregation is minimal, indicating that the electronic structure modified by surface segregation is the primary factor for enhanced ORR activities. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties and performance. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of Ag on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, forming elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface. At elevated temperatures, Ag mixes with bulk Pt, impacting the catalyst's behavior in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Strong Pt surface segregation in ternary alloys forms a Pt monolayer, leading to weaker O and OH binding strengths and enhanced ORR activity compared to bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics under varying reaction conditions, influenced by thermodynamic preferences. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is a key parameter for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks the activity of Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are significant, guiding bimetallic catalyst design for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit superior catalytic properties due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys, like PtNiPt(111), exhibit thermodynamic stability in subsurface configurations over surface ones in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred thermodynamically in fuel cell applications. Segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen-binding energies determine surface composition. Hydrogen can induce subsurface admetal segregation, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. These changes can be controlled by gas treatments, influencing catalytic properties. Surface segregation, where metals with larger atomic radii like Pt segregate to release strain, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metals to segregate due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes during oxidation or reduction are reversible, depending on gas redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. Pt-skin structures, with subsurface Fe modifying the electronic structure of surface Pt, enhance catalytic properties. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Structural transformations, influenced by reaction conditions, have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as exemplified by Fe49Pt51 alloys. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding the stability of various structures under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is critical for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It alters physical and chemical properties, significantly enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt. Enhanced catalytic activities are closely tied to surface segregation, as evidenced by Pt alloys with 3d metals. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is essential for understanding catalytic properties, as adsorbates can modify surface composition and thus catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is restored, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability variance is attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch favors impurity inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. The floating behavior, observed through surface morphology changes during preparation steps, suggests a probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) at 500 K contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, significantly affected by the first few layers' atomic arrangement and segregation, critically impacts catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, crucial for Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the lack of Pt site ensembles. These factors impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental verifications reveal the stability and segregation behavior of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various conditions, crucial for catalytic properties. These structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen but segregate with adsorbed oxygen, favoring surface configurations. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends are predictable using Δεd, and empirical equations can forecast thermodynamic stability in different environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental results on single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil confirm these trends, bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulations reveal Pd segregation to the surface and increasing Pt concentration towards the core, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, influencing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, with predominantly (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Ongoing studies explore the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for understanding the catalytic implications of bimetallic Pt-based catalysts under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au segregation, thermodynamically favorable due to exothermic processes, unlike PtCo alloys where Co migration to the surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt-based alloys show a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation in catalytic efficiency. Studies using modern techniques have characterized segregation trends and surface components, elucidating the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and leading to improved catalytic properties, such as enhanced oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation affects the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between metals, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local surface structure and composition, crucial for understanding catalytic properties in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. It dramatically changes the catalytic activities of alloys, particularly in Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, and the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some platinum. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved with appropriate structures. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, impacting their catalytic properties. In Pt-based systems, such as Pt-3d alloys, silver growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can alter the structural dynamics and stability of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs confirm modified catalytic activity, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent Pt surface segregation entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, and maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure's stabilization by alloying makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt atoms at vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer's exposure allows for stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. After Pt removal, surface vacancies are preferentially terminated by O atoms bonding with second-layer solute M atoms, as seen in Pt2Ti skin alloys where OTi bonding is more stable than OPt bonding. Atomic O on metals is anion-like, preferring ionic-bond formation. Pt alloys are less stable than Pt under electrochemical conditions at the same oxygen coverage, with zero oxygen coverage at working potentials being crucial. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation barrier being key for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo being more stable than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile's height. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance. Low Mo content (e.g., Pt5Mo) may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks activity at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (e.g., PtMo) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This behavior is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results highlight the potential for using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal planes significantly influence subsurface stability and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic counterparts due to the presence of a second metal in various states. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This dynamic nature allows for the adjustment of catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. The segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's effect dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d transition metals under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 [1], and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4]. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding surface structural configurations at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal in catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in unusual catalytic activity has sparked extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates, which can modify surface segregation and composition, critically impacting catalytic properties. Thus, understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is essential for their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, indicating complete segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface layer, with minor Pt loss. The stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's surface layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These insights affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, with DFT predicting stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen-induced segregation to surface structures. Experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, these findings show PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations in oxygen. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT and experimental results align, bridging the materials gap from single crystals to polycrystalline substrates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, influencing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer is underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Literature lacks specifics on how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, particularly in Pt-based alloys. However, it highlights the importance of high-performance cathode electrocatalysts for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the outermost layer, is crucial, enhancing catalyst stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring thermodynamics, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic process of Au segregation to the Pt(111) surface contrasts with the endothermic process for Co, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces uniquely activate the ORR, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys, revealing critical roles of metal dissolution and interlayer migration in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation leading to a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly impacting adsorption properties. This transformation, attributed to ensemble and electronic interaction effects, alters the composition of adsorption ensembles and modifies electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes affect catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition. The study reveals that surface structure significantly influences adsorption properties, crucial for understanding the catalytic implications of bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, sees enhanced performance when alloyed with 3d metals. This enhancement is attributed to surface electronic structure and bond length modifications. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The electronic structure, altered by surface segregation, is the primary factor in this enhancement, not geometric changes. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation, influencing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For instance, in Ag-Pt alloys, at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Upon annealing above 600 K, AgPt exchange occurs, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. This alloy spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that temperature-dependent structural dynamics can affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys strongly segregate Pt, forming a surface monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) uniquely bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas replacing it with suppressing metals prevents Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Surface Pt atoms are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band in alloys, but adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable and active alloy at high potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage playing a key role in facilitating ORR. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. These findings open new avenues for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces, enhancing catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with more Cu in the second layer. The results suggest that molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes can be a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, applicable to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane affects subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen, influencing surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. Crystal plane's effect on subsurface stability and ORR activity is crucial for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties over monometallics. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This redox dependence offers tunability for catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, as per Quote 1. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce surface segregation of 3d metals, forming oxidized islands, as stated in Quote 2. This dynamic significantly impacts catalytic properties; for example, atomic dispersed 3d metals on Pt(111) surfaces, as in Quote 3, enhance CO oxidation activity. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity, highlighted in Quote 4, is pivotal in determining alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, depending on reaction gas redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, influenced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic properties in various applications. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers. Different reactions produce distinct Fe-Pt surface configurations, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions. For instance, Fe49Pt51 alloys with a 100% Pt topmost layer have 25 times the activity of pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. For instance, the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface of Pt3Co alloys, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt, demonstrating the importance of studying segregation trends under surface adsorption for understanding catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability differences may stem from the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) host favors surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic distribution in the first layers of catalytic alloys significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy compared to Pt (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2) and their immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to surface migrate for CO binding. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces due to low Pt site ensemble probability. These factors influence catalytic properties and performance in applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental verifications confirm the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but predict 3d atom segregation to the surface with adsorbed oxygen. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary among crystal facets, with Pt3dPt(100) having higher barriers than Pt3dPt(111). Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties in subsurface structures for dehydrogenation and ORR could halt reactions in surface structures, and vice versa for steam reforming. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, can screen potential bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation outcomes reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to bulk. PtPd nanoparticles exhibit Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd atoms favoring (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell. These phenomena significantly affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "In PtFe bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for the alloy's catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, illustrating the influence of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems, and their catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring surface migration, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, hindering continuous segregation. This is due to the exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies show that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in Pt-based alloys has been extensively studied, revealing trends and characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. This stability enhancement, observed under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and enhancing catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate. Pt-skin surfaces show enhanced stability under adsorbate coverage, with a positive potential shift indicating delayed Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly impacting adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, alters the composition of adsorption ensembles and modifies electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes affect catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by less expensive metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced by appropriate structures. Pt alloys with 3d metals show enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Studies on Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces reveal that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 form. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies indicate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions significantly impact the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and potentially easing hydrogen separation and storage. NSA stability can be assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends. Improved nanofabrication techniques could enhance control over metal catalyst surface structures, fully leveraging NSAs' unique catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, making it more negative, while Ag, Au, and Pd lead to positive segregation energies, suppressing Pt surface segregation. The extent of Pt surface segregation is determined by relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with the former group of transition metals strengthens Pt segregation to the surface, whereas the latter group prevents Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. The stabilization of the Pt d-band by alloying makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as the best alloy, achieving high stability and activity. It has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier towards OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR are significant for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, outperform monometallic catalysts due to the presence of a second metal in various states. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region exhibit superior catalytic performance. The catalyst surface structure dynamically changes during reactions, influenced by the redox potential of reaction gases, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO), 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. These structural dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties; for example, Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3]. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, forming oxides that encapsulate Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, depending on gas redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces elucidates structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions. Understanding surface structural configurations and their stability under different atmospheres is crucial for optimizing Fe-Pt catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly alters catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt-3d alloys compared to pure Pt highlight the phenomenon's importance in catalysis. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can modify surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying surface segregation under these conditions is critical for understanding Pt-based alloys' performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed near-complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating strong surface segregation of Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability variance may stem from Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease as Ru(0001) (1.31-1.6 eVatom-1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom-1), to Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom-1), aligning with observed segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt: 0.277 nm, Pd: 0.275 nm) and Ru(0001) (0.270 nm) enhances surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying, were studied for floating behavior. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen adsorption's impact on surface segregation in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, favoring the bridge site over the (100) step. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits unique antisegregation behavior under oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, critically affects catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to the surface to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic properties, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. DFT predictions, verified experimentally, show PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher for Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). The stability trend, predicted from DFT and verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Δεd can screen bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements confirm segregation predictions and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends in stability correlation extend beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulation results indicate Pd segregation to the outer layers and a Pt concentration gradient in PtPd nanoparticles, with Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer forms due to increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement at the surface, providing corrosion protection. The protective Pt skin layer has significant implications for the catalytic properties of PtFe alloys in fuel cell applications, with ongoing research focusing on its electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, enhance oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring the segregation process, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation significantly impacts the stability and catalytic efficiency of Pt-based catalysts, with Pt-skin surfaces showing a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Studies using experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys. The segregation process, involving interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo, illustrating the thermodynamic and kinetic differences between Au and Co in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly alter surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. This stability enhancement, observed under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which bind strongly to the Pt surface layer. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, altering adsorbate binding strength, which can lead to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and enhanced electrochemical stability against dissolution. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the oxygen reduction reaction rate. The stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, indicating delayed Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys still exhibit enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature influences the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure affects adsorption properties, explained by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, impacts physical and chemical properties, significantly altering catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to develop cost-effective alternatives have focused on Pt-based alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic properties. An example is the growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, where elongated 2D-adislands form at room temperature, and annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient silver, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent studies show mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalysts' structural dynamics and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw strongly binding alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs exhibit high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models exist but do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Advanced nanofabrication techniques could enhance control over metal catalyst surface structures, potentially revolutionizing catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals strengthens Pt surface segregation, whereas replacing it with suppressing metals inhibits Pt surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, especially under electrochemical conditions with oxygen coverage, is crucial for catalytic activity. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for high activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure stabilizes upon alloying, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as enhancing surface stability at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo exhibits lower kinetic barriers for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. The stability and activity of Pt2Mo skin alloys are optimally balanced, with a Mo content of 30% achieving the best performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Contrary to expectations, CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is explained by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. These findings open up new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, altering the activity and selectivity of the catalyst. The CuPt near-surface alloy was suggested as a promising water-gas shift catalyst due to reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer. However, at elevated CO pressures and temperatures, it forms a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes affect the oxygen-induced segregation and subsurface stability of 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, influencing their catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict the stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting ORR activity. These factors determine surface segregation and structural configuration, crucial for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced surface complexity and catalytic properties over monometallics. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This redox dependence in bimetallics offers tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence mediated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface/subsurface interchange, whereas strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation, but oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial for real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions, attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show enhanced activity compared to pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding surface configurations' stability under different atmospheres and temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the phenomenon's importance. Surface segregation closely relates to activity improvement, as evidenced by the Pt-skin surface's unique ORR activity, achieving a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical for understanding catalytic properties and performance, as adsorbates can influence segregation and change surface composition, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was restored, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. Surface alloy stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface distribution in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, impacting Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion for CO binding is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, which is unlikely on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, explaining why CO oxidation doesn't occur on initially pure Au clusters.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregating under oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. These structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. This impacts catalytic performance, as optimal binding properties in subsurface structures could halt reactions due to strong binding, or prevent reactions in surface structures due to weak binding, according to Sabatier's principle. The correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can predict stability in various environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulations reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a Pt-enriched core in PtPd nanoparticles, with Pd favoring (100) facets over (111) facets. These phenomena significantly affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer is ongoing to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting the exploration of Pt-based alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the alloy surface, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic properties. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. The exothermic process of Au segregation to the Pt(111) surface indicates thermodynamic favorability, whereas Co's migration to the second layer in PtCo alloys makes continuous Co segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies show that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation's role is further elucidated through modern experimental and computational techniques, revealing segregation trends and characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The dissolution of metal atoms and rearrangement of Pt atoms in acidic solutions highlight the importance of interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and vacancy regeneration in the segregation process. The segregation model effectively interprets these phenomena, particularly from a kinetics perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing Pt-skin surface stability, which is protective against dissolution, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate. The positive potential shift associated with Pt-skin surfaces indicates delayed Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure affects adsorption properties, explained by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, show enhanced ORR activities, particularly when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role in this enhancement. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studies on Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) reveal that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form. Upon annealing above 600 K, extensive alloying occurs at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. This alloy spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies show mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions can influence the structural dynamics and stability of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit strong Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics under varying reaction conditions, influenced by thermodynamic preferences. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for improved catalytic activity. Select NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, depending on the segregation energy and hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence Pt surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt3Ni alloys. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects from the doped element collectively impact Pt segregation energy. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by relative surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir strengthens Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, especially under electrochemical conditions, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. The stabilization of the Pt d-band by alloying elements makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. In Pt2Ti alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding, consistent with O's anion-like behavior. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a beneficial element, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are crucial for oxygen reduction on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under varying reaction conditions, CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, like Pt-3d alloys, influence the stability of subsurface 3d metals under oxygen exposure, affecting catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are key to understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic counterparts in catalytic efficiency. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions. This dynamic allows for the adjustment of catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal in determining alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by various gases. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes in response to O2 and H2 contribute to surface structure and composition oscillations, significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions [1,2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4]. Structural transformations under varying conditions have significant implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. The optimization of Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires precise control of surface configurations and understanding of structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal for catalysis, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence these trends and change surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. This research is essential for understanding and optimizing the performance of Pt-based catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, though some Pt loss occurred. The stability differences may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) at 500 K contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co systems exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface atomic distribution and understanding segregation's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility at >17% Au composition favor Au's surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to surface migrate for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it's absent on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to low Pt site ensemble probability. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    