Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom surface segregation. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions and quantify activation barriers. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates DFT stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with 0.5 ML O. AES results show two segregation regions, aligning DFT predictions with polycrystalline substrates. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations favored with 0.5 ML O.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd atoms segregate to the outer layers, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys triggers the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic performance in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, further elucidating its role in fuel cell applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times more active than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, is significant for designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Pt, a popular cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity through surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin. Au demonstrates strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favored, unlike Co, which struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. Surface segregation is pivotal, as Pt-skin surfaces show a four-fold higher reaction rate than pure Pt. Studies reveal segregation trends and surface/subsurface characteristics in Pt alloys, elucidating critical processes like interlayer migration and vacancy movement.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. 3d metals improve surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, especially in oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to 3d subsurface atoms' protective role, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, enhancing adsorbate binding strength, which boosts catalytic properties like oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing reaction rates, and stabilizes Pt-skin surfaces, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This transformation impacts catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition. The changes highlight the role of surface structure in influencing adsorption properties and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities, altering properties like permeation and surface adsorption. Pt, a prime catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has been partially replaced by less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys. Notably, surface segregation enhances ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting surface segregation's critical role. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the primary factor for enhanced ORR activities in Pt-skin surfaces. Theoretical approaches and conditions like temperature and adsorbates govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Studying the Ag-Pt system, temperature dictates the formation of elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature, evolving into a nanophasic alloy with increased temperature. Annealing above 600K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to a uniform surface alloy. This temperature-dependent behavior highlights the role of thermodynamic factors in structural dynamics and catalytic properties, impacting performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing new NSAs for these applications, where exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and potentially easing hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni, making it more negative, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress Pt surface presence, leading to positive segregation energies. Surface energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M relative to Pt3Ni determine the extent of Pt segregation. Replacing Ni with transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd substitution prohibits it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to Pt d-band stabilization, making surface Pt atoms less susceptible to segregation or dissolution (Quote [1]). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote [2]). Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding (Quote [6]). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials (Quote [9]). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance (Quote [20]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes' impact on subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen exposure is crucial for catalytic performance in ORR. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability and ORR activity on specific crystal planes, influenced by thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with enhanced surface complexity, outperform monometallics, as exemplified by Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is pivotal, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, segregation, and structure, notably in Pt-3d alloys. Reductive conditions favor 3d TMs in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation, while hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxidative conditions can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions [1][2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts [4]. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction and hydrogenation, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities under varying reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Reaction environments with adsorbates can modify surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance, as shown by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys of PdRu and PtRu on Ru(0001) exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences favoring Pt and Pd segregation, and size mismatch promoting inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, impact the floating behavior, with distinct growth patterns observed for Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001).", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir displays antisegregation. Surface atomic arrangement, particularly in the initial layers, significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of surface distribution characterization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface to bind CO. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends correlate with kinetic barriers, using Δεd, and empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT and experiments on single crystal and polycrystalline substrates bridge the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show correlation of stability with d-band center difference, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results on PtPd nanoparticles reveal Pd segregation to the surface and a gradient in Pt concentration, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys triggers the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed through increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells. The disappearance of a small peak at 0.71 V, attributed to the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process, indicates the protective mechanism of the Pt skin layer. Ongoing research is exploring the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface. This highlights how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, specifically Pt-based systems, affecting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic activity. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au segregation, thermodynamically favored, unlike PtCo alloys where Co struggles to enrich surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces, as observed, show a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface segregation. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing surface and subsurface components. The segregation model confirms Co's segregation to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface stability by altering adsorption properties, protecting Pt-skin surfaces. This stability enhancement, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, follows the order of oxygen adsorption strengths, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability compared to pure Pt under adsorbate coverage, facilitating the removal of adsorbed species and increasing reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This affects catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, even for active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities by altering surface composition. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface, affects properties like permeation and catalytic efficiency. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, notably in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects, as the surface bond length deviation is minimal. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) forms elongated 2D-adislands with Ag80Pt20 composition at room temperature. Annealing promotes AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy confined to the surface layer, spreading with sufficient Ag for uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, indicating thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed through a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as confirmed by experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping inhibits it. The degree of Pt segregation is influenced by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation to the surface, while Ag, Au, and Pd prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is critical for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Molybdenum (Mo) is a beneficial element that can alloy with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with the barrier to OOH dissociation being key for OR activity. The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present. This discovery opens new avenues for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting potential for engineering surfaces for catalysis in water-gas shift reactions and other applications involving coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal planes' effect on subsurface stability and surface segregation is key for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, featuring Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance compared to monometallic counterparts. Surface structures dynamically change under varying redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, particularly Pt-based systems, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing shows subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often have a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect on surface/subsurface interchange, while strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, segregation, and structure of Pt-3d alloy catalysts. Reductive conditions favor 3d TMs in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu. Hydrogen's weak bonding to 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant for real-world catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures can undergo transformations under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation, which affects catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, impacting catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt, highlighting surface segregation's role. Surface segregation closely relates to unusual catalytic activity, as seen in a fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces. Adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, making it critical to study Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption for a comprehensive understanding of their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed complete surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with minor Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences, decreasing from Ru(0001) to Pd(111), and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying, were analyzed for floating behavior. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) indicates that Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences affect surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature on PtAu clusters enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface for CO binding. For CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, activity is hindered on 100% Au surfaces due to the low probability of Pt ensembles forming. These factors critically affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in different environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. All bimetallic systems follow a general stability trend, with subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations favored with oxygen. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher in Pt3dPt(100) vs. Pt3dPt(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results highlight Pd segregation to the outer layers and Pt concentration gradients in PtPd nanoparticles, featuring Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms show a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, which influences catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtFe alloys, exhibit enhanced stability and catalytic properties. In situ electrochemical STM reveals the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and form a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, crucial for fuel cell applications. Ongoing studies explore the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, electrocatalytic activity is enhanced, critical for polymer electrolyte fuel cells, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, leading to extensive research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation to the Pt(111) surface indicates thermodynamic favorability, whereas Co's migration to the second layer in PtCo alloys suggests prohibitive kinetics for continuous segregation. Surface segregation's role is exemplified by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces is four times higher than on pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, improving oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates adsorbate removal, boosting catalytic performance. Adsorbates affect stability, but Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability under adsorbate coverage, with a positive potential shift delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Ensemble effects and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation are crucial. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition underscores the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the prime electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s study showing a four-fold increase in ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces of Pt3Co alloys. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the primary factor for catalytic enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0), transforming into a nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, illustrating how reaction conditions influence catalyst stability and structure, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, boosting oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit enhanced electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, weakly akin to noble metals yet facilitating easier H2 dissociation, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. A two-step method assesses NSA stability by considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be reliably estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs show promise for low-temperature hydrogenation, enhancing selectivity in pharmaceutical production and potentially simplifying hydrogen storage and separation. These alloys could assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds, and could permit easier separation and storage of hydrogen.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, whereas doping with Ag, Au, and Pd inhibits it. The degree of Pt segregation is influenced by Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Transition metals that enhance Pt segregation do so by replacing Ni, while those that suppress segregation prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt atoms at vacancies bond more strongly with O atoms, and OM bonds at vacancies are stronger than OPt bonds. Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero O coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo stabilizes surfaces at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, enhancing OR activity. The stability and activity balance is best achieved in Pt2Mo skin alloys with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for enhanced catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based alloys, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability and ORR activity, crucial for bimetallic catalyst performance, with crystal plane dependency.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals in the subsurface, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, influenced by redox potential, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This interplay between structure and reaction environment significantly affects catalytic properties, as evidenced by Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs showing high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors larger atomic radius metals like Pt, with hydrogen's weak bonding not altering this process. Oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metals to segregate due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe modifying the electronic structure of surface Pt, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show enhanced activity in oxygen reduction reactions compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. Reaction conditions and adsorbates significantly influence segregation trends, altering surface composition and catalytic properties. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is critical, as evidenced by a four-fold ORR activity increase on Pt-skin surfaces versus pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface composition in determining catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys showed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, nearly restoring original surface composition, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly shaped by segregation, critically impacts catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties in Pt-based systems are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt least. Stability trends, quantified by DFT and experiments, use Δεd for alloy screening. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify segregation and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends correlate stability with d-band center difference, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, with Pd atoms in PtPd nanoparticles segregating to form Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. This directly impacts catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, enhances stability and catalytic properties in fuel cells by shielding the alloy from corrosion. Ongoing research examines its electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe at 50% content enhances electrocatalytic activity 25 times compared to pure Pt, attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface rather than interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, especially the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, an exothermic process, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to prohibitive kinetics. Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The segregation process, involving interlayer migration and vacancy dynamics, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process, especially in acidic solutions. The model explains these phenomena, highlighting the thermodynamic and kinetic barriers for Co segregation on Pt(111) surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals significantly influence stability and catalytic properties. Subsurface 3d atoms protect Pt-skin surfaces, enhancing stability under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. This stability enhancement facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the oxygen reduction reaction rate. The presence of 3d metals also improves electrochemical stability, with a positive potential shift delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials, thereby enhancing overall catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms the surface morphology of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) catalysts, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation, from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, changes adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions, affecting CO and deuterium adsorption. The sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition is demonstrated, highlighting the importance of surface structure modifications on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, significantly impacts catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, alters properties like permeation and surface adsorption. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, attributed to surface segregation. Notably, Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that the ORR on Pt-skin surfaces of Pt3Co alloys showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the crucial role of surface segregation in catalytic enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, transforming into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing above 600 K. AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in influencing catalyst properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, akin to noble metals, yet facilitate easier H2 dissociation, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. This chemistry is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed in vacuum and with hydrogen adsorption effects, and hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models but still follow main trends in adsorbate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Transition metals such as V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The degree of Pt surface segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with specific transition metals modifies the driving energy for Pt segregation, influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially Pt2Mo, demonstrate enhanced stability and catalytic activity under electrochemical conditions. The stability of clean alloy surfaces is attributed to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less susceptible to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Oxygen coverage significantly impacts stability, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage (Quote 8). Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for achieving high activity and stability. Pt2Mo exhibits a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier towards OOH dissociation, crucial for oxygen reduction activity (Quote 10). Mo is identified as an ideal element for alloying with Pt, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity, with crystal planes playing a crucial role.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals show dynamic changes in surface structure during reactions, similar to reversible processes observed in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions. This tunability offers opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact Pt-3d alloy catalysts' stability, segregation, and structure. Reductive conditions favor 3d TMs in subsurface layers, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, emphasizing the structure-reaction environment interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes during oxidation or reduction are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and excel in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's electronic structure modification, impacting surface species adsorption and reaction. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys exhibiting 25 times greater activity in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly alters catalytic activities, notably enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can modify surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Studying segregation trends under such conditions is crucial for understanding and optimizing Pt-based catalysts' performance, as catalytic properties are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by surface composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show near-complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys causes surface segregation, except in Pt/Ir(core) which exhibits antisegregation. Surface atomic distribution, influenced by these phenomena, significantly impacts catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility favoring its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is critical for catalytic performance, especially in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT calculations predict these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but oxygen induces surface segregation, forming 3dPtPt structures. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is the most susceptible. The Pt3dPt subsurface structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation, impacting catalytic activity. Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions if intermediates bind too strongly on the surface, and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions, revealing the stability trend and bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations show Pd segregates to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. This configuration, with Pd preferring (100) facets over (111) on the nanoparticle shell, significantly affects catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, as indicated by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing, promising new insights for electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, illustrating the role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to sluggish ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity, attributed to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin, enhancing stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co is more likely to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation boosts catalytic activity, as Pt-skin surfaces have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The dissolution of metal atoms creates critical defects for surface rearrangement, observed in acidic solutions. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is well-modeled, explaining phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The addition of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces in both clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and enhanced electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting the oxygen reduction reaction rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are critical, significantly affecting the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, alters physical and chemical properties, notably affecting catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive 3d metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activities. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Theoretical approaches reveal that modifications to the electronic structure, not geometry, are primarily responsible for enhanced ORR activities in systems like Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1). Surface segregation is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, transforming the structure into a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. This temperature-dependent behavior highlights the significant effect of reaction conditions on bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys show Pt surface segregation, forming a monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, weakly binding atomic hydrogen like noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing new NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface they bind strongly to, and hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may differ from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping inhibits it. The degree of Pt segregation is influenced by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni, with stronger segregation observed for V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, and suppression by Ag, Au, and Pd.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms, however, facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in the clean state. Oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions significantly affects alloy stability, with Pt alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for high activity and stability. Among various Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR), with OOH dissociation barrier as a key parameter for OR activity. The stability and activity of Pt2Mo are optimal with a 30% Mo content, achieving a balance that neither high nor low Mo content can match.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is explained by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results, confirmed by DFT calculations, indicate changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy, with implications for catalytic properties in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane orientation impacts the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen exposure, influencing ORR activity, crucial for understanding catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. These catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity and presence of 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity under varying redox conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Thermodynamically, subsurface PtNiPt(111) structures are more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys, indicating stability. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, whereas strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TM show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, underscoring the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments (2). Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common (4). Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics (16), whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes (24).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation and are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Surface structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, where Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is critical for understanding Pt-based alloys' performance, as evidenced by a four-fold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys of PdRu and PtRu on Ru(0001) exhibit segregation of Pd and Pt, with near-complete restoration of original composition post re-alloying, though slight Pt loss occurs. Stability differences may be due to lower Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed segregation trends. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including deposition, alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, show Pt (Pd) can dissolve in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, driving surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co, but antisegregation in Pt/Ir. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers critically influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of surface distribution characterization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate bimetallic catalyst stability and performance, notably in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface presence. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface migration, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of neighboring Pt sites, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. Δεd screens alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. AES results confirm segregation behavior, and activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher for Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show stability correlation with d-band center applies beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, creating a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. This preferential arrangement of Pd on (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell impacts catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe bimetallic catalysts, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, creating a corrosion-resistant layer. This has significant implications for catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structure, impacting catalytic properties. Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research into Pt alloys with enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the outer layer, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's exothermic segregation to the surface is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co's migration to the second layer in PtCo makes continuous segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., show four times higher ORR activity than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, highlighting the critical role of metal atom dissolution and Pt atom rearrangement, especially in acidic solutions, in the segregation process, which includes interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration. The segregation model interprets these phenomena from a kinetic perspective, confirming Co's segregation challenges in PtCo systems compared to Au's favorable segregation in PtAu systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which enhances catalytic properties such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This impacts the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are observed. STM reveals the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, crucial for understanding chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, is crucial in materials science and surface chemistry, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cost-effective alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some platinum. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved. Notably, enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys increase ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt, highlighting the importance of modified electronic structures through surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Ag forms elongated 2D islands on Pt(1 0 0) at room temperature, transforming into a nanophasic AgPt alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing above 600 K. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, demonstrating that thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show pronounced surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also improves electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as evidenced by the quote.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique properties, binding atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes, offering potential for selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Stability is assessed through a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by drawing alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be reliably predicted by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir boosts Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution from the dopant influence Pt segregation energy. The degree of Pt surface segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt atoms at surface vacancies bond more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. Pt2Ti skin alloys show that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role for OOH dissociation in OR activity. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with aqueous environments and in situ oxygen coverage facilitating the reaction. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes significantly affect subsurface stability of 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, impacting oxygen-induced segregation and ORR activity. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability under oxygen for subsurface 3d metals in Pt(111) and Pt(100), with crystal planes playing a crucial role in ORR performance. These factors are pivotal for bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties in diverse applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. The presence of a second metal, in metallic or oxidized form, on the surface, subsurface, or bulk, critically impacts catalytic properties. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes under redox shifts, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's effect modulated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Under oxidizing conditions, strong O-3d TM interaction causes surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This dynamic impacts catalytic properties; Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is essential for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes under varying redox potentials of environmental gases, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic Pt-based catalysts' stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Fe-Pt catalysts display high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are notably active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, critically influences catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance. Adsorbates under operating environments, common in catalytic reactions like the ORR, can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, making the study of segregation under surface adsorption essential. Enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals highlight the role of surface segregation, with Pt-skin surfaces showing reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Understanding surface segregation under real reaction conditions is crucial for optimizing Pt-based catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "STM and AES studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) revealed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with near-complete restoration of the original composition and slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Larger guest metals (Pt, Pd) in a tensile stressed outermost Ru layer favor surface segregation due to size mismatch. Annealing and Ru deposition steps were crucial for observing floating behavior and estimating Pt (Pd) dissolution probability using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorption impacts surface segregation in Pt-based alloys, notably Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Ir(core) systems. Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even under oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, is pivotal for catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like CO adsorption, influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites, explaining its absence on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists, PtTiPt succumbs to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability trends. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT and experiments confirm subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. AES results show DFT predictions apply to polycrystalline substrates. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends in stability correlation extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results for PtPd nanoparticles demonstrate a Pd-enriched shell and a Pt-enriched core, with Pd atoms preferentially segregating to (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, improving its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding light on electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, underscoring the role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt's slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, driving research into Pt-based alloys for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, whereas Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Studies reveal that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation trends have been identified for many Pt alloy systems, with surface and subsurface components characterized. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process in acidic solutions and can be interpreted from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions enhance stability and catalytic performance. 3d subsurface atoms protect Pt-skin surfaces, improving stability over pure Pt, even under adsorbate coverage. This leads to enhanced catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from Pt islands to alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. This transformation affects adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to surface structure and composition, crucial for understanding Pt-based alloy systems' catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, incorporating less expensive metals, have been studied as alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D islands on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, transforming into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing above 600 K. AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, impacting catalytic properties in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity beyond bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as evidenced by the enhanced binding characteristics and stability in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing their utility in hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed in a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, indicating potential for practical nanofabrication strategies to control catalyst surface structure. Recent innovations suggest practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may soon be possible, enabling better control of metal catalyst surface structure for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The degree of Pt segregation is governed by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doped elements affect Pt segregation through surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects, illustrating the role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst stability and structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A low Mo content may achieve higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content will destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, suggesting new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis in Pt-based systems, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT predictions reveal oxygen-induced subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), crucial for catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. These catalysts, with their enhanced surface complexity, particularly Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is crucial, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Eseg determines surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, contribute to structural dynamics, significant for real-world catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, as evidenced by MA Teng et al. (2010). Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons, attributed to subsurface Fe modifying the surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, influenced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Fe-Pt structures with metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers exhibit higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance, surpassing pure Pt. This phenomenon, linked to enhanced catalytic activity, has been a focal point of research. Studies often concentrate on vacuum conditions, yet the ORR and similar reactions occur in environments with adsorbates that can modify surface segregation trends and composition, impacting catalytic properties. Investigating Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is crucial for understanding their performance in practical applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES showed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original surface alloy composition of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) was nearly restored, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with a slight Pt loss. Stability differences may be attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd showing a tendency to segregate due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) host favors surface segregation by providing additional driving force.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) segregate, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely antisegregates even with oxygen. Surface structure, influenced by atom arrangement in the top layers, is critical for catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface presence. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, which is hindered on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of Pt ensembles, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    