Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom surface segregation. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm predictions and quantify activation barriers. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates DFT stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with 0.5 ML O. AES results show two segregation regions, aligning DFT predictions with polycrystalline substrates. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations favored with 0.5 ML O.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets, significantly impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys initiates the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as evidenced by in situ electrochemical STM studies. This layer safeguards the PtFe alloy from corrosion, significantly enhancing its stability and catalytic performance in fuel cells. Ongoing research is exploring the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly CO adsorption and oxidation, further illuminating its role in fuel cell applications.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times more active than pure Pt. This, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is crucial for designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency challenges due to slow oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity through surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin. Au demonstrates strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, a thermodynamically favored process, unlike Co, which struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. Surface segregation is pivotal, as Pt-skin surfaces show a four-fold higher reaction rate than pure Pt. Studies reveal segregation trends and surface/subsurface characteristics in Pt alloys, elucidating critical processes like interlayer migration and vacancy movement, which are crucial for understanding the catalytic properties of these materials.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces and improving catalytic properties by strengthening adsorbate binding. This stability is due to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing reaction rates and stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This transformation impacts catalytic activity and selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, and emphasizing the role of surface structure in influencing adsorption properties and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, alters catalytic activities, impacting properties like permeation and surface adsorption. Pt, a prime catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has been partially replaced by less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys. Notably, surface segregation enhances ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., who found that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the primary factor for enhanced ORR activities in Pt-skin surfaces. Theoretical approaches and conditions like temperature and adsorbates govern surface segregation, affecting the catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, temperature critically affects stability, surface segregation, and structure. At room temperature, Ag-Pt systems form elongated 2D-adislands, evolving into nanophasic alloys with increased temperature. Annealing above 600K promotes uniform surface alloy formation through AgPt exchange, highlighting thermodynamic influence on structural dynamics and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that reduces O and OH binding strength, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit greater electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, vital for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory assists in creating new NSAs for these applications, where select NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and potentially easing hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promote negative Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd induce positive segregation energies. Surface energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni determine segregation extent. Transition metal substitution in Pt3M strengthens Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd prohibit it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to Pt d-band stabilization, making surface Pt atoms less susceptible to segregation or dissolution (Quote [1]). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote [2]). Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding (Quote [6]). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials (Quote [9]). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance (Quote [20]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, oxygen exposure's effect on subsurface 3d metal stability, as influenced by crystal planes, is pivotal for ORR activity. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability and ORR performance on specific planes, highlighting the role of thermodynamics and kinetics in oxygen-induced segregation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallics. Their surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, similar to reversible processes observed in monometallic catalysts. This tunability offers opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity, making bimetallic catalysts highly adaptable for various applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as more thermodynamically stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, reductive conditions push 3d TMs into subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions lead to 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic-dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, showcasing the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii to relieve strain. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation, whereas hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxidative conditions can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in the design of high-performance catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities under varying reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Reaction environments with adsorbates can modify surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance, as shown by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys of PdRu and PtRu on Ru(0001) show significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences favoring Pt and Pd segregation, and size mismatch promoting inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, impact the floating behavior, with distinct growth patterns observed for Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001).", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show segregation, while Pt/Ir exhibits unique antisegregation behavior. Surface atomic arrangement, especially in the initial layers, significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface distribution in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, as per quote [1]. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as observed in quote [2]. Density functional theory, as mentioned in quote [3], confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface to bind CO. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, as detailed in quote [4]. These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends correlate with kinetic barriers, using Δεd, and empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT and experiments on single crystal and polycrystalline substrates bridge the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show correlation of stability with d-band center difference, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results on PtPd nanoparticles demonstrate Pd segregation to the surface, creating a gradient in Pt concentration with Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, a critical factor influencing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys triggers the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells. The disappearance of a small peak at 0.71 V, attributed to the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process, indicates the protective mechanism of the Pt skin layer. Ongoing research explores the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding light on electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content due to surface 5d-vacancy creation. This exemplifies how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms, is pivotal for enhanced stability and catalytic activity. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au segregation, a thermodynamically favored process, unlike PtCo alloys where Co struggles to enrich surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces display a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, underscoring the significance of surface segregation. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing surface and subsurface components. The segregation model confirms Co's segregation to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface stability by altering adsorption properties and protecting Pt-skin surfaces. This stability enhancement, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, is due to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability compared to pure Pt under adsorbate coverage, facilitating the removal of adsorbed species and increasing reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. This demonstrates the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition changes, highlighting the influence of reaction conditions on Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities by changing surface composition. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts properties such as permeation and catalytic efficiency. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions including methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects, as the surface bond length deviation is minimal. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) forms elongated 2D-adislands with Ag80Pt20 composition at room temperature. Annealing promotes AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy confined to the surface layer, spreading with sufficient Ag for uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, indicating thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, boosting ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces and enhancing electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed through a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping inhibits it, influenced by Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which reduces surface Pt atom segregation. Oxygen coverage is critical, with zero coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being key for high activity and stability. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Molybdenum (Mo) is beneficial, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt, with OOH dissociation being crucial for activity. The optimal Mo content in Pt2Mo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may increase stability without improving activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present. This discovery opens new avenues for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting potential for engineering surfaces for catalysis in water-gas shift reactions and other applications involving coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, highlighting the effect of crystal planes on subsurface stability and surface segregation, crucial for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts. Surface structures dynamically change under varying redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, particularly in Pt-based systems, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs in Pt-based alloys prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, illustrating the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu. Hydrogen's weak bonding to 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial for real-world catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt, influenced by subsurface Fe, enhances catalytic properties. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalysis relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. [1] [2] [3] [4]", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly affecting catalytic activities. Surface segregation in Pt alloys with 3d metals notably boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, as evidenced by a fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces, highlighting the critical role of studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption for a comprehensive understanding of their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys via STM and AES revealed complete surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with minor Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences, decreasing from Ru(0001) to Pd(111), and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying, were analyzed for floating behavior. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) indicates that Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences affect surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the first 23 layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature on PtAu clusters boosts Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface for CO binding. For CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, activity is hindered on 100% Au surfaces. These factors critically affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in different environments, as shown for Pt3d alloys. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. All bimetallic systems follow a general stability trend, with subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations favored with oxygen. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher in Pt3dPt(100) vs. Pt3dPt(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and Pt concentration gradients in PtPd nanoparticles, with Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, PtFe bimetallic catalysts form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, enhancing stability and catalytic properties. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create a protective layer shielding the alloy from corrosion, vital for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, electrocatalytic activity peaks at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to surface 5d-vacancy, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, critical for polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's exothermic segregation to the Pt(111) surface indicates thermodynamic favorability, whereas Co's migration to the second layer suggests prohibitive kinetics for continuous segregation. This is exemplified by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces is four times higher than on pure Pt, highlighting the critical role of surface segregation in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, which boosts oxygen reduction reaction rates and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates adsorbate removal, improving catalytic performance. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability, delaying Pt atom dissolution with a positive potential shift.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Ensemble effects and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation are critical, as probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition underscores the importance of surface structure in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the ORR in fuel cells, is often replaced by less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys, enhancing ORR activities, especially when alloyed with 3d metals. Stamenkovic et al.'s study demonstrates a four-fold increase in ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces of Pt3Co alloys, highlighting surface segregation's critical role. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the primary factor for catalytic enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. As an example, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) transform into a nanophasic AgPt alloy at elevated temperatures, demonstrating how reaction conditions influence catalyst stability and structure, which in turn affects catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, akin to noble metals yet facilitating easier H2 dissociation, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. A two-step method assesses NSA stability by considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be reliably estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs show promise for low-temperature hydrogenation, enhancing selectivity in pharmaceutical production and potentially simplifying hydrogen storage and separation. Deviations from ideal NSA structures do not substantially affect adsorbate behavior trends, but they do have a quantitative effect on NSA properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation by replacing Ni, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit this process by preventing Pt from reaching the surface. Pt segregation is influenced by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Maintaining zero O coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo stabilizes surfaces at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, enhancing OR activity. The stability and activity balance is best achieved in Pt2Mo skin alloys with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for enhanced catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based alloys, influenced by crystal planes, enhances subsurface metal stability and ORR activity, crucial for bimetallic catalyst performance, as predicted by DFT calculations.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, influenced by redox potential, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity, as demonstrated in Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d metals showing superior catalytic performance compared to pure Pt surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, indicating subsurface admetal preference. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, highlighting thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This interplay significantly impacts catalytic properties, as Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors larger atomic radius metals like Pt, with hydrogen's weak bonding not altering this process. Oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metals to segregate due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show improved activity in oxygen reduction reactions compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly boosts catalytic activities, particularly enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. Reaction conditions and adsorbates notably influence segregation trends, altering surface composition and catalytic properties. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is critical, as evidenced by a four-fold ORR activity increase on Pt-skin surfaces versus pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface composition in determining catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt, nearly restoring original composition post Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability variations are linked to lower Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd over Ru(0001). Size mismatch between guest metals and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Observed floating behavior through preparation steps suggests Pt (Pd) dissolution probability in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption on Pt-based alloys prefers the bridge site over the (100) step, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, shaped by segregation, significantly impacts catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's diffusion to the surface to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt least. Stability trends, quantified by DFT and experiments, use Δεd for alloy screening. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify segregation and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends correlate stability with d-band center difference, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions drive the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Pd atoms in PtPd nanoparticles segregate, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, directly affecting catalytic performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, enhancing stability and catalytic properties in fuel cells by shielding the alloy from corrosion, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, rearranges upon potential cycling, leading to increased Fe dissolution and the formation of a protective Pt layer. Ongoing research examines its electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, providing new insights for electrode materials in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structure, affecting catalytic properties. Notably, a 50% Pt-Fe alloy boosts electrocatalytic activity 25 times over pure Pt, attributed to surface 5d-vacancy rather than interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt's slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, notably the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, an exothermic process, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to prohibitive kinetics. Pt-skin surfaces enhance ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The segregation process, involving interlayer migration and vacancy dynamics, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process, particularly in acidic solutions. The model elucidates these phenomena, emphasizing the thermodynamic and kinetic barriers for Co segregation on Pt(111) surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance stability and catalytic properties by protecting Pt-skin surfaces under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. This stability facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting the oxygen reduction reaction rate. Additionally, 3d metals improve electrochemical stability by delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials, enhancing overall catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature-induced transformations in bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) catalysts alter surface morphology, significantly changing adsorption properties. The shift from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys modifies adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions, affecting CO and deuterium adsorption. This highlights the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, underlining the critical role of surface structure modifications on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, significantly impacts catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, alters properties like permeation and surface adsorption. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, attributed to surface segregation. Notably, Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that the ORR on Pt-skin surfaces of Pt3Co alloys showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the crucial role of surface segregation in catalytic enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, transforming into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing above 600 K. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in influencing catalyst properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals, yet facilitate easier H2 dissociation, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed in vacuum and with hydrogen adsorption effects, and hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models but still follow main trends in adsorbate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Transition metals influence Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, with some promoting and others inhibiting it. The degree of segregation is determined by Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with specific metals modifies the driving energy for Pt segregation, affecting catalytic properties through surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt2Mo, exhibit enhanced stability and catalytic activity under electrochemical conditions due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Oxygen coverage significantly affects stability, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage (Quote 8). Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Mo is identified as an ideal element for alloying with Pt, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9). Pt2Mo shows a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier towards OOH dissociation, essential for oxygen reduction activity (Quote 10). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability and ORR activity in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, highlighting the crucial role of crystal planes.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to increased surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals show dynamic structural changes during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, offering tunability for catalytic activity and selectivity adjustment.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's binding energy influencing segregation. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs prefer subsurface layers in Pt-3d alloys due to surface energy and size, whereas oxidizing conditions promote 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, illustrating the structure-environment interplay crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes during oxidation or reduction are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the electronic structure modification by subsurface Fe, affecting surface species adsorption and reaction. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times greater activity in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can alter surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Studying segregation trends under such conditions is crucial for understanding and optimizing Pt-based catalysts' performance, as catalytic properties are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by surface composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal near-complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys typically induces surface segregation, except in Pt/Ir(core) which exhibits antisegregation. This segregation significantly influences the surface atomic distribution, crucial for catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility favor its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors significantly influence catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic performance, especially in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT calculations predict stability in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but oxygen induces surface segregation, forming 3dPtPt structures. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is the most susceptible. The Pt3dPt subsurface structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation, impacting catalytic activity. Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions if intermediates bind too strongly on the surface, and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements confirm these predictions, revealing the stability trend and bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems like PtPd alloys. Simulations reveal that Pd segregates to the surface, forming enriched shells, while Pt accumulates in the core, enhancing catalytic properties. This configuration, with Pd favoring specific facets on the nanoparticle shell, markedly affects catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, Fe dissolution in a PtFe alloy forms a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells, as evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak. Ongoing research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, offers new insights for electrode materials in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This boost is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, highlighting the role of thermodynamic preferences in bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt, a critical cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to sluggish ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, incorporating Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity, attributed to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin, enhancing stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co is more likely to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation boosts catalytic activity, as Pt-skin surfaces have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The dissolution of metal atoms creates critical defects for surface rearrangement, observed in acidic solutions. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is well-modeled, explaining phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals significantly enhance surface adsorption and stability, particularly in Pt-skin surfaces under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is linked to oxygen adsorption strength and the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength, which boosts catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rates and enhanced electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction rate. The stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are critical, significantly affecting the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive 3d metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activities. Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting surface segregation's critical role. Theoretical approaches reveal that modifications to the electronic structure, not geometry, are primarily responsible for enhanced ORR activities in systems like Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1). Surface segregation is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, particularly temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, such as Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0), and annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, transforming the structure into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry across the surface. This temperature-dependent behavior highlights the critical effect of reaction conditions on bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding, weakly binding atomic hydrogen like noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, critical for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing new NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface they bind strongly to, and hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may differ from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence Pt surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promoting, and Ag, Au, and Pd inhibiting this process. Segregation is affected by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni, highlighting the role of these factors in structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (quote 1). However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in the clean state (quote 2). Oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions significantly affects alloy stability, with Pt alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage (quote 8). Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for high activity and stability. Among various Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its stability at high electrochemical potentials (quote 9) and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) (quote 10), with OOH dissociation barrier as a key parameter for OR activity. The stability and activity of Pt2Mo are optimal, achieving a balance that neither high nor low Mo content can match (quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is explained by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings, confirmed by DFT calculations, suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results indicate changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity, with implications for catalytic properties in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane orientation influences oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen exposure, impacting ORR activity, crucial for understanding catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity under varying redox conditions, as demonstrated in Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals at the subsurface region.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Thermodynamically, subsurface PtNiPt(111) structures are more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys, indicating stability. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as observed in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, whereas strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d TMs migrate to subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TM exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through treatments in various gases (2). Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common (4). Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics (16), whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes (24).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of high-performance catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is critical for understanding Pt-based alloys' performance, as evidenced by a four-fold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, demonstrating the importance of surface geometry and electronic structure in catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys of PdRu and PtRu on Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt, with near-complete restoration of original composition post re-alloying, though slight Pt loss occurs. Stability differences may be attributed to lower Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed segregation trends. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including deposition, alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, show Pt (Pd) can dissolve in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen preferentially adsorbs at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, driving surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co, but showing antisegregation in Pt/Ir. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of surface distribution in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences favor Au's surface presence on Pt-based alloys due to lower free energy and immiscibility. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface migration, especially on initially pure Au clusters. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of neighboring Pt sites, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. Δεd screens alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. AES results confirm segregation behavior, and activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher for Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show stability correlation with d-band center applies beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations reveal that Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. This preferential arrangement of Pd on (100) facets over (111) facets impacts catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe bimetallic catalysts, observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, creating a corrosion-resistant layer. This has significant implications for catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structure, affecting catalytic properties. Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the outer layer, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's exothermic segregation to the surface is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co's migration to the second layer in PtCo makes continuous segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., show four times higher ORR activity than pure Pt. These findings highlight the critical role of surface segregation in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. 3d metals improve surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces in clean and oxygen-covered conditions, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. They alter electronic and geometric properties, enhancing adsorbate binding and catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation aids in removing adsorbed species, boosting the ORR rate. The stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interactions for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are observed, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, crucial for understanding metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, is pivotal in materials science, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cost-effective alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some platinum, improving catalytic properties. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys increase ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt, highlighting the importance of modified electronic structures through surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D islands on Pt(1 0 0), transforming into a uniform nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, illustrating how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as evidenced by the quote.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) uniquely bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes, offering potential for selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Stability is evaluated through a two-step process: analyzing composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by attracting alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be reliably predicted by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures and potential for easier hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution from the dopant determine the Pt segregation energy, affecting catalytic properties. The degree of Pt surface segregation is influenced by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, except for Pt2Mo, which is stable at high potentials. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Pt2Mo shows a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, with OOH dissociation playing a key role in OR activity. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, facilitated by aqueous environments and in situ oxygen coverage. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes in Pt-based catalysts significantly influence subsurface stability of 3d metals, affecting oxygen-induced segregation and ORR activity. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability under oxygen for subsurface 3d metals, with crystal planes playing a critical role in ORR performance, essential for bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, featuring subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to increased surface structural complexity. The presence of a second metal, in metallic or oxidized form, critically influences catalytic properties. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes under redox shifts, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating thermodynamic preferences. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, highlighting a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's effect modulated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This dynamic impacts catalytic properties, as seen in high CO oxidation activity on Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes under varying redox potentials of environmental gases, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, affecting catalytic properties. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show enhanced activity compared to pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating significantly higher activity in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under varying atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, with Pt-skin surfaces achieving reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Adsorbates under operational conditions can alter surface composition and catalytic properties, underscoring the critical role of studying segregation under surface adsorption for optimizing Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) showed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with near-complete restoration of original composition and slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Larger guest metals (Pt, Pd) in a tensile stressed outermost Ru layer favor surface segregation due to size mismatch. Annealing and Ru deposition steps were crucial for observing floating behavior and estimating Pt (Pd) dissolution probability using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen adsorption's role in surface segregation in Pt-based alloys, notably Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Ir(core) systems. Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even under oxygen adsorption, impacting catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts, where surface structure is crucial.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and CO adsorption impact Pt-based bimetallic catalysts' stability and structure. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's diffusion to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites, doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These dynamics significantly affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists, PtTiPt succumbs to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability trends. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT and experiments confirm subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. AES results show DFT predictions apply to polycrystalline substrates. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends in stability correlation extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results for PtPd nanoparticles reveal a Pd-enriched shell and a Pt-enriched core, with Pd atoms favoring (100) facets, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Potential cycles further promote Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, solidifying the protective layer. Ongoing research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, offers new insights into electrode material study for fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times more effective than pure Pt. This enhancement, linked to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, underscores the critical role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, driving research into Pt-based alloys for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, whereas Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d subsurface atoms shield Pt-skin surfaces, enhancing stability and catalytic performance, even under adsorbate coverage. Surface segregation aids in removing adsorbed species, boosting reaction rates, which is crucial for applications requiring high oxygen reduction reaction rates and electrochemical stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing induces a transformation in PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from Pt islands to alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and influencing catalytic activity and selectivity. This highlights the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to surface structure and composition, crucial for comprehending the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, incorporating less expensive metals, have been studied as alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D islands on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, transforming into a uniform stoichiometry nanophasic alloy upon annealing above 600 K, as AES confirms Ag's high-temperature mixing with bulk Pt. This highlights how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity beyond bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin surface shows increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as evidenced by enhanced binding characteristics and stability in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing their utility in hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. A two-step procedure assesses stability, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, indicating potential for practical nanofabrication strategies to control catalyst surface structure. Recent innovations suggest practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may soon be possible, enabling better control of metal catalyst surface structure for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This is governed by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, illustrating how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A low Mo content may achieve higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content will destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, suggesting new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis in Pt-based systems, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes significantly influence subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. Oxygen-induced effects on subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) are pivotal for catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. These catalysts, with their complex surface structures featuring Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, demonstrate enhanced catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence surface stability and catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, indicating subsurface admetal stability. Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Surface composition is determined by Eseg, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, influencing stability and catalytic properties. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, contribute to structural dynamics, crucial for real-world catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, as MA Teng et al. (2010) observed. Pt-skin structures are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons, attributed to subsurface Fe modifying surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, influenced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Fe-Pt structures with metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance, outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to enhanced catalytic activity, has been a central focus of research. Studies often concentrate on vacuum conditions, yet the ORR and similar reactions occur in environments with adsorbates that can alter surface segregation trends and composition, impacting catalytic properties. Investigating Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is crucial for understanding their performance in practical applications, as adsorbates can modify surface geometry and electronic structure, affecting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) nearly restored their original composition, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with a slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd showing a tendency to segregate due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) host favors surface segregation by providing additional driving force.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely shows antisegregation, even in the presence of oxygen. Surface structure, significantly affected by atom arrangement in the top layers, is crucial for catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically shape bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface presence. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as density functional theory confirms. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, which is hindered on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of Pt ensembles, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    