Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predictions, corroborated by experiments, show that Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen triggers 3d atom segregation to the surface. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher for Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). The stability trend, confirmed on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, suggests subsurface configurations are favored in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are preferred with oxygen. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Sabatier's principle indicates that optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates in the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, PtFe alloys form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. The dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt at the surface lead to the formation of this protective layer. Ongoing research is exploring the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation processes, which are crucial for understanding its role in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, underscores the impact of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, and their catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, crucial for polymer electrode membrane (PEM) fuel cells. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the outer layer, significantly impacts stability and catalytic efficiency. Au demonstrates strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, whereas Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic process in PtAu contrasts with the endothermic process in PtCo, indicating Au's thermodynamic preference for the surface. For PtCo, Co atoms prefer migrating to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. This segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive for Co on clean Pt(111) surfaces. Studies confirm that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. 3d metals notably enhance the stability of Pt-skin surfaces, even under adsorbate coverage, due to the protective role of subsurface 3d atoms. This stability enhancement, opposite to oxygen adsorption strengths, modifies electronic and geometric properties, boosting catalytic performance. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement delays Pt atom dissolution, associated with a positive potential shift.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects observed for D, CO, and D adsorption upon alloy formation underscore the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface, demonstrating the critical role of surface dynamics in catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects, as the surface bond length deviation is minimal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the formation of elongated 2D Ag adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 on a Pt(1 0 0) surface at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes alloying at the perimeter of these adislands, transforming them into a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. This alloy spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate some mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, illustrating how reaction conditions can affect the catalyst's properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying conditions, impacting catalytic properties. NSAs bind hydrogen weakly like noble metals but dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, which are pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed by considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for pharmaceuticals and hydrogen storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models affect quantitative properties but not main trends, suggesting that advanced nanofabrication techniques could optimize NSA structures for catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping inhibits it. This is determined by thermodynamic factors including Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, illustrating how reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is key for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a critical role in facilitating the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, suggesting new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis in Pt-based systems, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT predicts oxygen's effect on subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), influencing ORR activity, with crystal planes playing a significant role.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties due to complex surface structures. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based bimetallics outperform pure Pt in catalytic reactions. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in surface configuration.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers in Pt-based alloys due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure and reaction environment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, impacting stability and catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to atomic radius differences, is common and tunable by gas treatments. Oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation, whereas hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by the redox potential of gases, are significant in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high CO oxidation selectivity in excess H2 [1], and Pt-skin structures are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2]. Unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are linked to subsurface Fe's effect on surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient, cost-effective catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, driven by thermodynamic preferences, boosts catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, directly linked to surface segregation. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is crucial, as adsorbates can alter these trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. This research is pivotal for understanding the performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications, as demonstrated by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on a Pt-skin surface compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys of PdRu and PtRu on Ru(0001) exhibit segregation of Pd and Pt to the surface after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with minor Pt loss. Stability is affected by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring inclusion of larger guest metals (Pt, Pd) in the outermost Ru layer. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show segregation, while Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation, even in the presence of oxygen. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface structure dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences favor Au's surface retention on Pt due to lower surface free energy and immiscibility. Reaction conditions, like CO adsorption, promote Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in binding CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. Experimentally, this was verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, showing subsurface structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends were confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, with Δεd used to screen alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements support these predictions, revealing two segregation regions and bridging the materials gap. Linear trends show the correlation of stability with d-band center differences applies beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations reveal Pd segregation in PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, potential cycles in PtFe alloys lead to the dissolution of Fe and the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding light on electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability and catalytic properties. Notably, 50% Fe content in Pt-Fe alloys boosts electrocatalytic activity 25 times over pure Pt, attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially PtAu and PtCo, enhance oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity in PEM fuel cells through surface segregation, addressing Pt's sluggish kinetics. PtAu alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, favoring Pt-skin formation and enhancing stability, unlike PtCo alloys where Co is less likely to enrich surfaces. Surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable for Au but unfavorable for Co, affecting Co's continuous segregation. Pt-skin surfaces have a four times higher reaction rate than pure Pt, highlighting the crucial role of surface segregation in catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface stability and adsorbate binding, improving catalytic properties like ORR rate and electrochemical stability. The protective role of 3d subsurface atoms under oxygen adsorption correlates with surface stability, facilitating the removal of adsorbed species and delaying Pt atom dissolution under adsorbate coverage. This stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, maintaining enhanced stability of Pt-skin surfaces from the alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) to PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble composition and electronic interactions, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation highlight the role of surface structure in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to find alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. These alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, show enhanced ORR activities, particularly when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that Pt-skin surfaces on annealed Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the crucial role of surface segregation. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length of alloy systems. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, specifically Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0), creating Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to a nanophasic alloy spread. Elevated temperatures cause Ag to mix with bulk Pt, altering catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based NSAs, exhibit thermodynamic stability and surface dynamics influenced by reaction conditions, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. These NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2. Stability is assessed in a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends, promising high hydrogenation activity for pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Innovations in nanofabrication techniques suggest practical strategies for metals may not be far off, crucial for precise control of metal catalyst surface structure to benefit fully from NSAs' unique catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping inhibits it. Segregation extent is governed by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, with stronger effects observed for V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, and suppression by Ag, Au, and Pd.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is a key parameter for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks the activity of Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, the less reactive Cu is unexpectedly pulled to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, counter to expectations. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability. DFT predicts enhanced stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, crucial for ORR activity, demonstrating crystal plane effects on bimetallic catalyst design for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit superior catalytic properties due to complex surface structures. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals enhance catalytic performance. Surface dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, optimizing performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, thermodynamic stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys, such as PtNiPt(111), favor subsurface configurations over surface ones in vacuum, demonstrating stability. Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in fuel cell applications. Segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen-binding energies determine surface composition; hydrogen can induce subsurface admetal segregation, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as observed in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Pt-3d alloy catalysts' stability and structure are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions: reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) favor 3d TM subsurface placement due to surface energy and atomic size, while oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation and oxidized island formation. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt to release strain, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the segregation process, whereas oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metals to segregate due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes during oxidation or reduction depend on gas redox potential, crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamics and reaction conditions influence Pt-based bimetallic catalysts' stability and structure, impacting catalytic properties. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and activity in hydrogenation, attributed to subsurface Fe modifying surface Pt's electronic structure. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, essential for designing high-performance catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), exceeding pure Pt's performance. Under operating conditions, adsorbates modify surface composition, impacting catalytic efficiency. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is pivotal for optimizing the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys, as shown by enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals, closely linked to surface segregation dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring impurity inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), influenced by Pd content, 2D component distribution, and Ru bonding differences. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), Pd(111), supporting the observed segregation tendency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption on Pt-based alloys prefers the (100) step, driving surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core), but not in Pt/Ir(core), which exhibits unique antisegregation. Surface structure, influenced by the first few layers' atomic arrangement and segregation, is crucial for catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Contiguous Pt sites are essential for CO oxidation, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental evidence confirm the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with hydrogen, but they segregate to surface configurations with oxygen. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd predicts stability trends, and empirical equations forecast thermodynamic stability in various environments. Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa, impacting catalytic performance. These findings are consistent across single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil, bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions drive the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulations reveal Pd's surface segregation, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt is core-concentrated. Pd's preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell significantly affects catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe bimetallic catalysts, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with predominantly (111)-oriented facets, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic properties in fuel cells. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, contributing to the protective layer's formation. Ongoing research explores the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, further elucidating its role in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, which is pivotal for understanding catalytic implications under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit catalytic efficiency, leading to research on Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au segregation, thermodynamically favorable due to exothermic processes, unlike PtCo alloys where Co migration to the surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt-based alloys show a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation in catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces, particularly under oxygen-covered conditions. This stability, linked to oxygen adsorption strength, boosts catalytic properties, including the oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates adsorbate removal, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability of Pt-skin surfaces delays Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials, with 3d subsurface atoms providing protection.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into alloys, impacting adsorption properties and catalytic activity. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local surface structure and composition in Pt-based alloys highlights ensemble and electronic interaction effects, crucial for understanding catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts catalytic activities in bimetallic systems, especially in Pt-based catalysts used in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, spreading across the surface with sufficient Ag. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions alter structural dynamics and stability, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity beyond bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, critical for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them pivotal in hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is evaluated through a two-step method: analyzing composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Dopants like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution influence the degree of Pt segregation, with stronger effects observed for V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, and complete prevention by Ag, Au, and Pd doping.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, with zero coverage at 0.9 V being critical for stability and activity. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high potentials, offering a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving a balance between stability and activity. Low Mo content ensures higher stability but lacks activity, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and diminishes activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This behavior is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results highlight the potential for using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation in Pt-based systems, guided by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability in Pt surfaces under oxygen, emphasizing crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, with 3d transition metals in the subsurface, outperform monometallic catalysts due to their dynamic surface structures. These structures, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, change during reactions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity based on the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) exhibits greater thermodynamic stability than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys for fuel cell applications. Surface composition is dictated by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen's effect contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as observed in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, illustrating tunable surface structures via gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) beyond pure Pt capabilities. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has attracted extensive research, with studies revealing that the ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, achieving reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. The presence of adsorbates under operating environments can significantly modify surface segregation and composition, critically affecting catalytic properties. Therefore, understanding the segregation trend of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is paramount for optimizing their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies reveal complete segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface layer in PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences correlate with Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy disparities and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through four preparation steps, highlights distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even in the presence of oxygen. The arrangement of atoms in the surface layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, crucial for Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as density functional theory confirms. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but segregate to surface structures with oxygen, verified experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends favor subsurface configurations in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations in oxygen. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, correlating thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers through a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions, aligning DFT and experimental results, bridging the materials gap from single crystals to polycrystalline substrates. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions if surface structures bind too strongly, or prevent reactions if subsurface structures bind too weakly.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the core, creating Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer, focusing on CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-Fe alloys. Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, achieving up to 25 times higher than pure Pt at 50% Fe content, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface. This enhancement is critical for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring thermodynamics, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic process of Au segregation to the Pt(111) surface contrasts with the endothermic process for Co, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces uniquely activate the ORR, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions enhance stability and catalytic properties. 3d metals improve surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces in various conditions, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. This modifies electronic and geometric properties, enhancing adsorbate binding and catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation to a Pt-skin layer boosts the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, with stability enhancement linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, impacting adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interactions, which affects catalytic activity and selectivity. This transformation demonstrates sensitivity to local structure and composition, highlighting the crucial role of surface structure in adsorption properties and catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, shows enhanced performance when alloyed with 3d metals. This enhancement is attributed to modifications in surface electronic structure and bond length, as evidenced by Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys demonstrating a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The primary factor in this enhancement is the altered electronic structure due to surface segregation, not geometric changes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, particularly temperature, influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. In Ag-Pt alloys, 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces at room temperature, and annealing above 600 K triggers AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry. At high temperatures, Ag mixes with bulk Pt, demonstrating how temperature-dependent structural dynamics can alter catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) uniquely bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions [1]. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes [2]. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications [20]. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers [21], promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures [23], ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects determine the extent of Pt segregation. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Surface Pt atoms in alloys are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, but adsorbed O atoms can facilitate Pt removal. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable and active alloy at high potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage playing a key role in facilitating ORR. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity, as it ensures high stability at high potentials without compromising activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. These findings open new avenues for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces, enhancing catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with more Cu in the second layer. The results suggest that molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes can be a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, applicable to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes' influence on subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen conditions affects surface segregation and structural dynamics, impacting ORR activity. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), crucial for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, surpass monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals display exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, enabling tunability for catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates' electronegativity affects surface configuration, with weak ones having minimal impact and strong ones significantly altering binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This dynamic enhances CO oxidation activity when 3d TMs are atomically dispersed on Pt(111) surfaces, highlighting the pivotal interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through various gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces segregation of 3d transition metals due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to the encapsulation of Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes, active in oxidation/reduction reactions, depend on the redox potential of the reaction gases, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, essential for designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures show enhanced activity, with Fe49Pt51 alloys having 25 times higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, driven by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, boosts catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals, like Pt3Co, exhibit superior oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt, with Pt-skin surfaces quadrupling reaction rates. Under operational conditions, adsorbates modify surface composition and segregation, impacting catalytic properties. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is crucial for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys via STM and AES revealed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) host favors surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption on Pt-based alloys' (211) surfaces favors the (100) step's bridge site, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic distribution in the initial layers of catalytic alloys significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of segregation's effect.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface migration, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference for surface migration to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces due to low Pt site ensemble probability, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental evidence confirm the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with hydrogen, but predict 3d atom segregation to the surface with oxygen adsorption. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is the most susceptible. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary among crystal facets, with Pt3dPt(100) having higher barriers than Pt3dPt(111). Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties in subsurface structures for dehydrogenation and ORR could halt reactions in surface structures, and vice versa for steam reforming. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, can screen potential bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. PtPd nanoparticles exhibit Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd showing a facet preference on the shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "In PtFe bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions lead to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, crucial for its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at a 25-fold increase over pure Pt at 50% Fe content, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface. This exemplifies how thermodynamic preferences influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, affecting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring surface migration, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, hindering continuous segregation. This is due to the exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies show that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in Pt-based alloys has been extensively studied, revealing trends and characterizing surface and subsurface regions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals boosts surface adsorption and the stability of Pt-skin surfaces, outperforming pure Pt due to the protective effect of 3d subsurface atoms. This stability is evident under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, enhancing catalytic performance and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation aids in the removal of adsorbed species, accelerating the reaction rate. Pt-skin surfaces show increased stability under adsorbate coverage, with a positive potential shift indicating delayed Pt atom dissolution, crucial for catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing-induced transformations of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys significantly impact adsorption properties. Changes in ensemble and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru alter adsorption ensemble composition, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition underscores the catalytic implications of these surface transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by less expensive metals. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like annealing above 600 K, influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, which alloy upon heating, spreading across the surface to establish a uniform AgPt alloy. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, notably in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit exceptional hydrogen binding, weakly attaching atomic hydrogen akin to noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, vital for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Select NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, advantageous for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and potentially easing hydrogen separation and storage. NSA stability is evaluated by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, improving stability, while Ag, Au, and Pd induce positive segregation energies, reducing Pt surface exposure. Replacing Ni with transition metals that promote Pt segregation increases surface Pt concentration, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd prevent Pt from segregating to the surface, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys like Pt-3d exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. However, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies (Quote 2). Pt2Mo is identified as the best alloy, achieving high stability and activity with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier towards OOH dissociation (Quote 10). Only Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V) (Quote 14). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, enhances subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict increased ORR activity due to crystal plane effects on subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100).", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to complex surface structures. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d metals outshine pure Pt in reactions. Surface dynamics, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, highlighting the pivotal role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's binding energy influencing segregation. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage, unlike weakly binding adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes under varying redox potential conditions, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Fe-Pt catalysts show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, highlighting the importance of understanding surface structural configurations for optimized performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, boosts catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR). Compared to pure Pt, Pt alloys exhibit enhanced ORR performance, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can alter surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Studying surface segregation under these conditions is crucial for understanding Pt-based alloys' catalytic performance, as evidenced by a fourfold increase in ORR rate on a Pt-skin surface versus pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal strong surface segregation of Pd and Pt, with near-complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, and slight Pt loss. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed segregation trends. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt: 0.277 nm, Pd: 0.275 nm) and Ru(0001) (0.270 nm) enhances surface segregation. Distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is observed, possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption on Pt-based alloys prefers the bridge site over the (100) step, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation under oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, is crucial for catalytic activity in the first layers of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially shape bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention (1). CO adsorption at room temperature boosts Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (2). Density functional theory validates Pt's thermodynamic benefit in diffusing to the surface to bind CO (3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure (8). These dynamics profoundly influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher for Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). DFT correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, confirmed on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt. Δεd screens bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements confirm segregation predictions and quantify activation barriers.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Simulation results highlight Pd segregation to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets, which has substantial implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed due to increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, protects the alloy from corrosion, significantly impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding light on electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells. This boost is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, enhance oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring the segregation process, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation significantly impacts the stability and catalytic efficiency of Pt-based catalysts, with Pt-skin surfaces showing a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The segregation process, involving interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo, illustrating the thermodynamic and kinetic differences between Au and Co in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance Pt-skin surface stability by binding strongly as subsurface atoms, leading to improved oxygen reduction reaction rates and electrochemical stability. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys exhibit delayed Pt atom dissolution, indicating enhanced stability compared to pure Pt, directly addressing the question of thermodynamic stability and catalytic implications under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties through changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. Surface structure, critical for bimetallic catalysts, affects adsorption through ensemble effects and electronic interactions, highlighting its importance for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to develop cost-effective alternatives have focused on Pt-based alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, particularly temperature, significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent behavior of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, where elongated 2D-adislands form at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to a nanophasic alloy confined to the surface layer. At higher silver concentrations, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Studies show that Ag mixes with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, highlighting the impact of reaction conditions on structural dynamics and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and surface segregation of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and considering hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw strongly binding alloy components to the surface. Hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd reduce it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni govern the degree of Pt segregation. Substituting Ni with promoting transition metals boosts Pt surface segregation, while replacing it with suppressing metals decreases this effect, influencing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo enhances surface stability at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo exhibiting lower kinetic barriers for oxygen reduction, crucial for OR activity. The stability and activity of Pt2Mo skin alloys are optimally balanced, achieving the best performance with a Mo content of 30%.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new avenues for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to various coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The CuPt near-surface alloy is a promising water-gas shift catalyst due to reduced PtCO bonding. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes affect oxygen-induced segregation and subsurface stability of 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, impacting catalytic properties. DFT predicts subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, influencing ORR activity.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to increased surface complexity. Surface structures dynamically adapt under varying reaction conditions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts. This redox dependence offers tunable catalytic activity and selectivity in bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are thermodynamically more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating Pt's surface preference. Hydrogen's influence on surface segregation is mediated by segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers in Pt-based catalysts due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, but oxygen adsorption can induce segregation of 3d transition metals. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes, reversible under changes in reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial for real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and enhanced activity in hydrogenation reactions, attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, as evidenced by 100% selectivity for CO oxidation and high hydrogenation activity. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, crucial for designing efficient catalysts, with Pt-skin structures showing notably higher activity than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, with Pt alloys showing superior ORR performance over pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces, formed by Pt segregation, quadruple the ORR rate, highlighting segregation's impact. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is crucial for understanding adsorbate effects on surface composition and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt occurs after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Surface alloy stability varies, possibly due to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed segregation trends. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through deposition, annealing, and re-alloying, confirms segregation tendency. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption on Pt-based alloys, like Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co, favors the bridge site over the (100) step, causing surface segregation. Notably, Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of surface atoms in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of surface distribution in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamics and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, crucial for Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion for CO binding is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, which is unlikely on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, explaining why CO oxidation doesn't occur on initially pure Au clusters.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, as predicted by DFT and confirmed experimentally, but segregate under oxygen. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. These structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. This impacts catalytic performance: optimal binding properties in subsurface structures could halt reactions due to strong binding, or prevent reactions in surface structures due to weak binding, according to Sabatier's principle. The correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can predict stability in various environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, simulations reveal Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming a Pt-enriched core, with a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets, significantly impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells, as indicated by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior through CO adsorption and oxidation studies, providing new insights for electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-Fe alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, a 50% Pt-Fe alloy enhances electrocatalytic activity 25 times over pure Pt, due to surface 5d-vacancy, highlighting the pivotal role of alloy composition in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's slow oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) kinetics in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting the exploration of Pt alloys with transition metals for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic properties. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, due to thermodynamic favorability. Au segregation to the Pt(111) surface is exothermic, whereas Co's migration to the second layer in PtCo alloys makes continuous Co segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern studies have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions, revealing the importance of interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and vacancy regeneration in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces against dissolution, particularly under oxygen adsorption. This stability correlates with oxygen adsorption strength in alloys, improving catalytic properties like increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting reaction rates. The positive potential shift in Pt-skin surfaces indicates delayed Pt atom dissolution, underlining enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions, highlighting the critical role of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts' performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, show enhanced ORR activities, especially when alloyed with 3d metals. Notably, surface segregation plays a pivotal role in this enhancement, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., where the ORR on Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on Pt(1 0 0). Annealing above 600 K creates a nanophasic AgPt alloy, spreading across the surface with uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions influence structural dynamics and stability, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics under varying conditions, influenced by thermodynamic preferences. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for improved catalytic activity. Select NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, depending on the segregation energy and hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt3Ni bimetallic catalysts, Pt surface segregation is influenced by doping elements and reaction conditions. Elements like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The degree of Pt segregation is governed by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, all of which are affected by the doping elements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, emphasizing the importance of zero oxygen coverage for high activity and stability. Alloying elements stabilize the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more effectively than the initial surface. Pt2Ti alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding, reflecting oxygen's anion-like behavior. Mo is identified as a beneficial element in Pt2M alloys, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, with OOH dissociation playing a critical role. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are crucial for oxygen reduction on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane orientation significantly influences subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen exposure, impacting ORR activity. DFT calculations confirm the role of structural dynamics in catalytic properties, showing how crystal planes affect subsurface metal stability and ORR performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic counterparts. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, enabling the adjustment of catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are thermodynamically preferred over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions promote surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, underscoring the critical interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by various gases. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes in response to O2 and H2 contribute to surface structure and composition oscillations, significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. These catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions [1,2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates can influence segregation trends, changing surface composition and affecting catalytic properties, making the study of segregation under surface adsorption critical for optimizing Pt-based catalysts. Enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals and the unique catalytic activity of Pt-skin surfaces, where the ORR rate is four times that of pure Pt, highlight the importance of surface segregation in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, though some Pt loss occurs. Stability differences may be attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with the observed segregation of Pt and Pd, where surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation, favoring the inclusion of impurity metals in the outermost Ru layer.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen preferentially adsorbs at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers of catalysts significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of surface characterization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, crucial for Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility at >17% composition favor its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it's absent on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    