Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic properties, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant, PtTiPt most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends are quantified using Δεd and BEP relationships, with empirical equations predicting stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen, verified experimentally, bridging the materials gap. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential, maintaining general stability trends.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surface to bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further research is exploring the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening. This finding is significant for the design of high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt is a popular cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, but its slow ORR kinetics limit efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co is unlikely to continuously segregate in PtCo alloys, as it is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation significantly impacts catalytic properties, as Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Studies using experimental and computational techniques have characterized segregation trends and surface components in Pt alloy systems, revealing critical processes like interlayer migration and vacancy movement. The segregation model interprets these phenomena, particularly from a kinetics perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing Pt-skin surface stability and protecting against dissolution, as seen under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement correlates inversely with oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic performance, such as increased ORR rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting ORR rate, and the positive potential shift indicates delayed Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption are observed upon alloy formation, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition. These changes highlight the importance of surface structure in influencing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop cheaper alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals are observed, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Upon annealing above 600 K, AgPt exchange occurs at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to nanophasic AgPt alloy formation confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at high temperatures. These findings suggest that thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, impacting their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also display improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, but they can quantitatively impact catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, the addition of transition metals modifies Pt surface segregation energies. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This is influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by its relative energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with promoting metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas replacing it with suppressing metals prevents Pt surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, especially under electrochemical conditions, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, the less reactive Cu in CuPt near-surface alloys segregates to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, contrary to expectations. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly affect the stability of subsurface 3d metals, especially under oxygen exposure. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), influencing surface segregation and structural dynamics. The crystal plane's effect on subsurface stability has direct implications for catalytic properties, notably in oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, demonstrating the interplay between thermodynamics, reaction conditions, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties over monometallics. Pt-based alloys with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallics under redox shifts, allowing tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, promoting surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also forecasted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, while oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to electronic structure modifications by subsurface Fe, influencing surface species adsorption and reaction. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Pt-skin stability can be reduced under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) impact catalytic properties in various applications. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine Fe-Pt surface configurations, with different reactions producing distinct structural configurations. For ORR, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis and magnetism requires controlled surface structural configuration design and stability information at elevated temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has prompted extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, catalytic reactions like the ORR occur in environments with adsorbates that can influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Thus, understanding surface segregation under adsorbates is critical for Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys was restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability variance may stem from the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were crucial. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasted with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen adsorption's impact on surface segregation in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, favoring the bridge site over the (100) step. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show surface segregation, while Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation's role in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption on PtAu clusters at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is inhibited on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic properties and performance, particularly in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predictions, verified experimentally, show these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. PtNiPt is most resistant, PtTiPt most susceptible, to oxygen-induced segregation. The stability trend, predicted from DFT and verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, reveals higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). Δεd can screen bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, surface MPtPt(111) with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements confirm segregation and activation barriers, bridging the materials gap from single crystal to polycrystalline substrates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for improved activity. Surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin, enhances stability and catalytic performance. PtAu shows favorable Au segregation, unlike PtCo, where Co migration to the surface is inhibited. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR activity fourfold. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing critical surface defects and rearrangement processes. The segregation model explains the exothermic Au and endothermic Co migration, confirming Co's thermodynamic and kinetic segregation barriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, follows the opposite order of oxygen adsorption strengths. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys still show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, impacts catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure modifications, observed via STM, affect adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is crucial for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals show enhanced ORR activities due to surface segregation, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., where Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys had a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The electronic structure, modified through surface segregation, is the main factor for enhanced activities, not the surface geometry. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, indicating thermodynamic effects on catalyst structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens oxygen and hydroxyl binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces offer improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics under varying reaction conditions, influenced by thermodynamic preferences. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. This characteristic is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory calculations, which predict catalytic activity. Selected NSAs defy the norm by allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, particularly if they strongly bind to alloy components. Hydrogen's tendency to cause segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt3d alloys, the addition of transition metals modifies Pt surface segregation. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This impacts the stability and catalytic properties under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. The stabilization of the Pt d-band by alloying makes surface Pt atoms more difficult to segregate or dissolve. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role for OOH dissociation in OR activity. The stability of clean alloy surfaces is inferred from the Pt d-band structure, showing that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band. Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V), and the ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar reaction profile as on Pt. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes and oxygen exposure influence the stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR performance are critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced surface complexity and superior catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show exceptional catalytic activity. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This redox dependence offers the potential to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's effect modulated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Reductive conditions favor 3d transition metals' subsurface location due to surface energy and size, while oxidizing conditions promote their surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic affects catalytic properties; for example, Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d metals exhibit high CO oxidation activity. The structure-reaction environment interplay is crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals like Pt, is common, driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes in Pt-based systems, influenced by redox potential, are significant in catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys having 25 times the activity of pure Pt. The stability of these structures under different reaction atmospheres is crucial for optimizing their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is crucial for understanding the catalytic performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability variance may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied. A Boltzmann approach estimates Pt/Pd dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, with Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibiting antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly affected by the arrangement of the first 23 layers and segregation, critically determines catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, such as CO adsorption, significantly affect the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy compared to Pt makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when deposited on Pt. Au and Pt immiscibility at high Au compositions also keeps Au atop Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to diffuse to the surface to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, which is unlikely on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors have implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. This was experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends were confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and foil. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability was considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements verified segregation and activation barriers. AES results show two segregation regions, bridging the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, protects the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Further studies on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer are ongoing to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt is a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, but its ORR kinetics limit efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu, while Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co, which is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation significantly boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and leading to improved catalytic properties, such as enhanced oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing affects the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption are observed. Surface structure and composition, accessible by STM, significantly influence adsorption properties. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition is demonstrated, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role in this enhancement, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., who found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified surface electronic structures and bond lengths. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, leading to the formation of elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature and a nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K. This alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies show mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can alter the structural dynamics and catalytic performance of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also demonstrate improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these processes. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and potentially easier hydrogen separation and storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw surface components to which they bind strongly, and hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may differ from ideal models, but deviations do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, making it more negative, while doping with Ag, Au, and Pd leads to positive segregation energies, suppressing Pt surface segregation. The extent of Pt surface segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with the former group of transition metals strengthens Pt segregation to the surface, whereas replacing it with Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for achieving high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms exposed at surface vacancies can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Surface vacancies in Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Atomic O on metals prefers to form ionic bonds. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation being a key kinetic parameter for OR activity. The stability of surfaces follows the order Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo exhibiting higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar reaction profile as on Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A low Mo content may achieve higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content will destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with the second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties due to complex surface structures. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) structures are more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions like vacuum and CO, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Conversely, oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. This structural dynamics significantly impacts catalytic properties. For example, Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3]. The interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for alloy catalyst performance [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, such as PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, occurs to relieve strain. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on the Pt(111) surface, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, have implications for catalytic properties in various applications, including oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is critical for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in activity improvement, especially under surface adsorption, underscores its study's importance for understanding catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed near-complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating strong surface segregation of Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The alloy's stability slightly varied, possibly due to Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt's (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies, decreasing as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), align with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied for floating behavior. A Boltzmann approach estimated Pt/Pd dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy compared to Pt and their immiscibility at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These insights have implications for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic properties, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as DFT predicts and experiments on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil show stability trends in various conditions. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability trends apply to various atomic species and can be extended to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify segregation and activation barriers. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) has higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host shifts segregation potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surface to bulk, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that enhances corrosion resistance, impacting catalytic properties in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer for electrocatalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, impacting the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, forming a Pt-skin, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit favorable Au segregation, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation unlikely. Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR rates fourfold compared to pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have characterized segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the importance of surface and subsurface composition. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is exothermic for PtAu but endothermic for PtCo, indicating thermodynamic and kinetic barriers for Co segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and delaying the dissolution of Pt atoms to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing affects the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure impacts adsorption properties, explained by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition demonstrates the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s study on Pt3Co alloys, where Pt-skin surfaces showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands form with a specific composition. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of the Ag adislands, through AgPt exchange. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions can influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing catalytic activity for the oxygen reduction reaction. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, weakly binding atomic hydrogen like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by binding strongly to alloy components. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. Precise control of surface structure is essential for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, suggesting advancements in nanofabrication techniques. NSAs offer potential for selective hydrogenation reactions and improved hydrogen management.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys like Pt3Ni, doping with transition metals modifies Pt surface segregation. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This is influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by its relative surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir strengthens Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd prevent it entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. The stabilization of the Pt d-band by alloying makes surface Pt atoms more resistant to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. This is due to less coordinated Pt atoms at the surface vacancy having more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms. The second layer atoms' exposure allows for stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding, consistent with atomic O's anion-like behavior, preferring ionic-bond formation. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as enhancing stability at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation for OR activity. The stability hierarchy follows Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance. Low Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks activity, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, offering new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis. These findings, confirmed by DFT calculations, suggest implications for catalytic properties in applications like water-gas shift reactions. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy. The vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation. The results extend to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, highlighting the potential for molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their surface structural complexity, outperform monometallic catalysts in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics during reactions, influenced by changes in the gaseous environment, offer opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity by adjusting the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions, particularly in Pt-based alloys, is critical as it modifies catalytic properties. Annealing reveals that subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. The segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties; for example, Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal in determining alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metals' segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and catalyze hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons effectively. Pt-skin surfaces' unique catalytic properties are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures elucidates structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in high-performance catalyst design. Surface structural configurations transform under varying conditions, impacting catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Fe-Pt alloys with subsurface Fe or transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in activity improvement is well-documented. Under adsorbate environments, segregation trends and surface composition change, impacting catalytic properties. Studying this under adsorption is critical for understanding Pt-based alloys' performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability variance is linked to Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt's (70%). Surface segregation preference is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D component distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces. Surface segregation is observed in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems, with Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibiting antisegregation behavior even in the presence of oxygen. These phenomena significantly influence the catalytic activity of alloys by affecting the arrangement of surface atoms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption on PtAu clusters at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. These predictions, verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and polycrystalline Pt, show PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using Δεd and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship, correlating DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface MPtPt(111) with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements confirm segregation and activation barriers. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation with Δεd beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations with 0.5 ML O.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, creating a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has implications for catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics in PEM fuel cells limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, particularly the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces uniquely activate the ORR, quadrupling reaction rates compared to pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have characterized segregation trends and surface components in Pt alloys, revealing critical roles of metal dissolution and interlayer migration in the segregation process. The model explains these phenomena, highlighting the exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic, prohibitive process for Co on Pt(111) surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties, such as increased ORR rate and improved electrochemical stability against dissolution. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces alters their morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly impacting adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, modifies the composition of adsorption ensembles and the electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes affect the catalytic properties, specifically the activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) reveals the surface structure and distribution of components, crucial for understanding adsorption properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, is pivotal in materials science and affects properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. These alloys, especially when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activities due to surface segregation. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation in catalytic enhancement. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving forces behind this phenomenon, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Under varying reaction conditions, particularly temperature, the stability and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, such as Pt-based alloys, are influenced. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to nanophasic AgPt alloy formation confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions can affect the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed in vacuum and with hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially bind to alloy components they strongly attach to. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Stronger Pt segregation occurs with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, while Pt segregation is prohibited with Ag, Au, and Pd.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, is significantly influenced by oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces, as evidenced by the Pt d-band structure, are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in the absence of O atoms. This is because Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, enabling stronger bonding with O atoms compared to terrace Pt atoms. Additionally, second layer atoms exposed at surface vacancies can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Mo stands out among Pt2M alloys for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR), with OOH dissociation being a key parameter for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction's potential profile. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a crucial role in facilitating ORR on alloy surfaces. The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo contents may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo contents destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane impacts the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, influencing catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal plane variations thus play a critical role in surface segregation and structural dynamics, impacting bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity and superior catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals in the subsurface region. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is crucial, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. This affects catalytic properties, as Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3]. The structure-reaction environment interplay is crucial for catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metals' segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Surface structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has spurred extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, catalytic reactions like the ORR occur in environments with adsorbates that can influence surface segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Thus, understanding surface segregation under adsorption conditions is critical for Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with nearly complete restoration of the original alloy composition. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability differences may stem from the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow the order Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to lower Pd content, 2D component distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, critically affects catalytic activity in alloys, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface atomic distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature on PtAu clusters promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is hindered on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic properties, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantifiable using Δεd and BEP relationships, predicting preferred configurations in different environments. Surface structures may bind intermediates too strongly or weakly, affecting reaction progress. These insights are applicable to polycrystalline substrates and can be extended to other bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the core, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has implications for catalytic properties in fuel cells. Further studies on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer are underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is explained by the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening. This insight is crucial for understanding the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts under varying reaction conditions, impacting their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, crucial for PEM fuel cells. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, significantly affects stability and catalytic efficiency. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co, which tends to migrate inward, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. This segregation process is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo. Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin surfaces have a four times higher ORR rate than pure Pt. Surface segregation is critical for Pt-based alloys, with numerous studies characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The dissolution of metal atoms creates defects, affecting the rearrangement process, and the segregation model interprets these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both clean and under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance. Despite the influence of adsorbates on stability, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms the morphology from isolated Pt islands to a PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloy, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, changes the composition of adsorption ensembles and the electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes affect the activity and selectivity of the catalyst, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface. The study highlights the importance of surface structure in determining the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some Pt. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface electronic structure and bond length. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, where elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions can influence the catalyst's structural dynamics and stability, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates influence surface composition, and hydrogen's role in surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, with experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs showing modified catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, doping with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This is due to the collective impact of surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, such as Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). However, oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions significantly affects stability, with alloys generally being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage (Quote 8). Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, like 0.9 V, is critical for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, molybdenum (Mo) stands out for forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity (Quote 10). The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal (Quote 20). Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes affect the thermodynamic stability and kinetics of subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, influencing surface segregation and structural configuration. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. The crystal plane's effect on subsurface stability and ORR activity is crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties over monometallics. Pt-based alloys with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallics under redox shifts, allowing tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells prefer Pt-terminated surfaces, indicating thermodynamic stability. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Surface structural configurations transform under varying conditions, affecting catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals versus pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in activity improvement is evidenced by Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co, showing four times higher ORR rates. Research has primarily focused on vacuum conditions, but catalytic reactions like ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can modify surface segregation and composition, underscoring the importance of studying Pt alloys under real reaction conditions for understanding their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability of these alloys is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies (Ru(0001): 1.31.6 eVatom1, Pt(111): 1 eVatom1, Pd(111): 0.8 eVatom1) and size mismatch between guest and host metals. The floating behavior, observed through a series of preparation steps, suggests a probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region during surface alloy formation, estimated by a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the initial layers of catalysts significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility with Pt at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic favorability to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is crucial for catalytic applications, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but prone to 3d atom segregation with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface structures are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface structures with oxygen. Δεd can screen alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in various conditions. The difference in binding energies highlights the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements confirm predicted segregation and activation barriers. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT predictions apply to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation with Δεd applies beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, influencing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed through increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer is underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, is crucial. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface Au atoms, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic Au segregation process contrasts with the endothermic Co process, indicating Au's thermodynamic advantage. For PtCo, Co atoms prefer migrating to the second layer over the surface, hindering continuous Co segregation. Surface segregation boosts catalytic activity, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with ORR rates four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the model explaining phenomena from a kinetic perspective. The exothermic Au and endothermic Co segregation cycles illustrate the thermodynamic and kinetic factors influencing surface composition.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. The introduction of 3d metals into Pt(111) alters surface adsorption properties, mainly attributed to the direct involvement of 3d metals on or beneath the surface. Pt-skin surfaces of Pt-3d alloys exhibit enhanced stability compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, altering adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the oxygen reduction reaction rate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature influences the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface or sub-surface layers, affects properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cheaper alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic performance. At room temperature, silver forms elongated 2D-adislands on a Pt(1 0 0) surface with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures cause mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, as indicated by temperature-dependent AES studies, affecting the catalyst's structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: initial vacuum composition analysis followed by hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's surface segregation tendency is estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. Doping with transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote stronger Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction compared to Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for oxygen reduction activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, the less reactive Cu in CuPt near-surface alloys segregates to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting the catalyst's activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at elevated CO pressures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR are significant for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region show exceptional catalytic activity. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This dynamic nature allows for tuning catalytic activity and selectivity based on the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts' surface structures dynamically change with the environmental gas's redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common, driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen's strong bonding can induce 3d metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes, reversible with redox potential changes, significantly impact real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times greater activity. Understanding surface structural configurations and stability under various conditions is crucial for optimizing Fe-Pt structures in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability differences may stem from the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd segregation due to their higher surface energies and larger size compared to Ru. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying, suggests a probability for Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region, estimated by a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution in the first 23 layers of catalytic alloys significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. DFT calculations confirm Pt's surface migration to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    