Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is crucial for catalytic applications, showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregating under oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, confirmed on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, correlates with d-band center differences, enabling screening of bimetallic alloys. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet, with Pt3dPt(100) having higher barriers than Pt3dPt(111). Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen, verified experimentally.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal that Pd segregates to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing from surface to core. Interestingly, Pd prefers (100) facets over (111) facets in the shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. In PtFe systems, specific conditions induce a Pt skin layer formation with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure, affecting catalytic properties. Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity 25-fold at 50% Fe content, explained by the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, forming a Pt-skin, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys show favorable Au segregation, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation unlikely. Studies reveal that Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR rates fourfold compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation dynamics, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, are critical for understanding Pt-based alloy behavior. The exothermic process in PtAu and endothermic in PtCo systems highlights thermodynamic influences on segregation. These insights, gained through experimental and computational techniques, elucidate the complex interplay between surface structure and catalytic properties in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. This stability enhancement, observed under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and leading to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing affects the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. The surface structure and composition, observable by STM, significantly influence adsorption properties for CO and D, explained by ensemble and electronic interaction effects. These changes demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, is crucial in materials science and affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on annealed Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For instance, the growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface and its structural evolution with temperature illustrate this influence. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures. These findings suggest that thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions can affect the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen chemistry on near-surface alloys (NSAs) is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes, with some NSAs binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2. This characteristic is beneficial for hydrogen-related reactions. NSAs' stability can be assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, particularly when they bind strongly to alloy components. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, which is advantageous for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and could facilitate hydrogen separation and storage. Deviations from ideal NSA structures do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends, but experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs have shown modified catalytic activity, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation by making segregation energies more negative, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it with positive segregation energies. The extent of Pt surface segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with specific transition metals can either promote or prohibit Pt segregation to the surface, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution, but O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable and active alloy at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is key for high activity and stability. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a crucial role in the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, influence the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. The crystal plane's effect on subsurface stability and ORR activity highlights the role of structural dynamics in bimetallic catalysts' catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity, with the second metal present in various states, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying gaseous environments. This redox potential dependence offers opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing, and Pt3d alloys often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate stability, surface segregation, and structure, impacting catalytic properties. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity [3], highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. The stability of Pt-skin structures can diminish under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on the Pt(111) surface, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, have implications for catalytic properties in various applications. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions can result in metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers, influencing surface structural configurations. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity in ORR than pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires precise control of surface structural configurations and understanding of structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different reaction atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is critical for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in activity improvement, especially under adsorbates, highlights its importance for understanding catalytic properties and performance. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is essential for optimizing catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, except for a slight Pt loss. The stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the first layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure for Pt-based alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) favors Au's surface retention when deposited on Pt, and Au-Pt immiscibility at Au compositions >17% keeps Au atop Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to surface migrate for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces, lacking neighboring Pt sites. These dynamics impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various conditions is critical for catalytic properties and performance, being desirable in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and expanded to polycrystalline Pt to understand kinetic barriers for segregation. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability of other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) configurations are preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) configurations are favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements verify predicted segregation and quantify activation barriers. AES results suggest two segregation regions, showing DFT predictions and experimental measurements are applicable to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation compared to Pt3dPt(111) configurations. Linear trends show correlation of thermodynamic stability with d-band center difference can be used beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulation results reveal that Pd segregates to the outer layers, increasing Pt concentration from surface to core, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, protects the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further studies on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, are ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-skin surfaces, formed by surface segregation, enhance the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, crucial for PEM fuel cells. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au surface segregation, thermodynamically favorable due to an exothermic process, unlike PtCo alloys where Co migration to the surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation's role in ORR activity is exemplified by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have elucidated segregation trends and surface/subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of metal atom dissolution and rearrangement in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation are key factors. The surface structure's effect on adsorption properties can be attributed to ensemble and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic properties due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the unique activity of segregated surfaces. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the key factor for catalytic enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. Studies on Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) show 2D-adislands forming at room temperature with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, highlighting the role of thermodynamic preferences in structural dynamics and catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates attract alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but this doesn't significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs confirm modified catalytic activity, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while doping with Ag, Au, and Pd suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doped elements affect surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, collectively influencing Pt segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is significantly influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for achieving both high activity and stability. The stability of clean alloy surfaces can be inferred from the Pt d-band structure, which shows that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms more difficult to segregate or dissolve. However, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms, Pt removal is facilitated due to the stabilization of surface vacancies by O atoms. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction compared to Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A low Mo content may achieve higher stability at high potentials but does not improve activity at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption pulls less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the stronger PtCO bond. This impacts catalyst activity and selectivity, offering new possibilities for selective engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, especially in water-gas shift reactions. DFT calculations confirm Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increased Cu content. The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, affecting the stability of the alloy surface. These findings extend to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly influence the stability of subsurface 3d metals under oxygen exposure, affecting catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), with crystal planes impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals is thermodynamically and kinetically governed, crucial for understanding surface dynamics and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic counterparts in catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions. This dynamic allows for tuning catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Conversely, oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals' surface segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Surface transformations under varying conditions affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as exemplified by Fe49Pt51 alloys with 25 times the activity of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in activity improvement, especially under adsorbate environments, underscores its critical study for understanding Pt alloys' catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch favors inclusion of Pt and Pd in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's surface layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the lack of neighboring Pt sites. These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures, critical for catalytic properties, is influenced by reaction conditions. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. This is experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, revealing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, with Δεd used to screen alloys. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantify activation barriers. AES results show two segregation regions, bridging the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the surface and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "In PtFe bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets. This process, observed under in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4, leads to increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement at the surface. The resulting Pt skin layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further studies on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer are underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, particularly in Pt-skin formation, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits favorable thermodynamics for surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where surface migration is kinetically prohibitive. Studies show ORR is more active on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have characterized segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects and interlayer migration in the segregation process. The exothermic nature of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process in PtCo, highlighting the thermodynamic and kinetic factors influencing bimetallic catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. This stability enhancement, observed in both clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which bind strongly to the Pt surface layer. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and leading to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and enhanced electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, such as annealing temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Annealing transforms surface morphology from isolated Pt islands on a Ru substrate to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties. These changes are attributed to ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation. The surface structure and composition significantly affect adsorption properties, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) reveals the distribution of components in the topmost layer, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, an efficient catalyst for reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Alternative catalysts, focusing on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, have been explored to reduce costs. The catalytic properties of these alloys are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by chemical composition, leading to improved catalytic effects. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities can be attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force and tendency of surface segregation, which is also governed by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, and annealing above 600 K promotes alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands. With sufficient Ag, a nanophasic AgPt alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions significantly affect catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), especially in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen binding and dissociation properties, akin to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. NSA stability is assessed in two steps: composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates, notably hydrogen, can induce surface segregation, with the tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Despite deviations from ideal models, NSAs show high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage, as supported by experimental studies.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, the addition of transition metals modifies Pt surface segregation. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from segregating to the surface, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (1,11). However, in the presence of adsorbed oxygen atoms, Pt removal is facilitated as the surface vacancy is stabilized more strongly by oxygen than by a perfect surface (2). This is because Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, allowing stronger bonding with oxygen compared to terrace Pt atoms (3). Additionally, the exposure of second layer atoms at the surface vacancy enables the formation of stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds (4). After Pt removal, the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by oxygen atoms that bond with solute M atoms at the second layer (5). In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding (6). Oxygen on metals behaves anion-like, preferring to form ionic bonds (7). Under electrochemical conditions, alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, and maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is key for high activity and stability (8). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (9). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity (10). The stability of clean alloy surfaces is inferred from the Pt d-band structure, showing that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band (11). The stability of PtxMo alloys decreases with increasing potential, aligning with the rise in surface oxygen coverage above 0.9 V (14). The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar reaction profile as on Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height (15). The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces (18). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (19,20). Low Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity (21).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly affect the stability of subsurface 3d metals under oxygen exposure, influencing surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. These factors determine the catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic catalysts, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals, enhancing catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence modulated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Conversely, oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, demonstrating the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity for hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of high-performance catalysts. The stability of Pt-skin structures can be reduced under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Different reactions can produce varying Fe-Pt surface configurations, impacting catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and the preferential oxidation of CO. For instance, Fe49Pt51 alloys with 100% Pt as the topmost layer showed 25 times higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has spurred extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can influence segregation trends and surface composition, critical for understanding catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, except for a slight Pt loss. The stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) favors surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, significantly affected by the first 23 layers' atomic arrangement, critically impacts catalytic activity in alloys. Characterizing surface atomic distribution is essential for understanding segregation's role in catalytic alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility with Pt (above 17% Au) favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in varying conditions is crucial for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations favored with oxygen. These findings are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, bridging the materials gap. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability in different environments. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for various bimetallic systems. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental results correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, demonstrating the need to understand stability in reacting environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal that Pd segregates to the surface, creating a Pt concentration gradient from surface to bulk, with equilibrium PtPd nanoparticles exhibiting Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, protects the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer is ongoing to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, demonstrating the influence of structural dynamics on catalytic properties under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt is a leading cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, yet its slow ORR kinetics limit efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have shown enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer. This process is thermodynamically favorable for Au in PtAu alloys, as evidenced by exothermic segregation, but not for Co in PtCo alloys, where Co atoms migrate to the second layer, making continuous segregation unlikely. Surface segregation, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects and interlayer migration in the rearrangement process. The segregation model explains these phenomena from a kinetic perspective, highlighting the exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co, which is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals alter surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered states. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, altering adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This affects the activity and selectivity of the catalyst, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface. Ensemble effects for deuterium adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and deuterium adsorption upon alloy formation are key factors. The study highlights the importance of surface structure in influencing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to develop alternative catalysts have centered on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt for ORR. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into a nanophasic AgPt alloy with annealing above 600 K. AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, highlighting the role of temperature in alloy composition and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration under varying thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: initial vacuum composition analysis followed by hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially attract alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between pure solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys like Pt3Ni, the addition of a third transition metal modifies Pt surface segregation. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This is determined by the Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit varying stability influenced by oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are stabilized by the Pt d-band, making Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in pure Pt. This is due to less coordinated Pt atoms at surface vacancies bonding more strongly with O atoms. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo is identified as particularly stable at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation for OR activity. The stability hierarchy follows Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) profiles on Pt2Mo are similar to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are crucial for ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with low Mo content (below 30%) providing higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results suggest changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting the activity and selectivity of the catalyst, as seen in the water-gas shift reaction. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The onset of bulk migration of Cu is explained by the results with adsorbed CO, and the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, where the stable CO-induced surface alloy forms and breaks up. These findings add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity. Crystal planes significantly influence subsurface stability and consequent catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, outperform monometallic catalysts in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structure changes dynamically during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This dynamic nature allows for the adjustment of catalytic activity and selectivity by tuning the surface structure based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure as more thermodynamically stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen and oxygen influencing subsurface admetal segregation. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving segregation. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures show high activity for hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals display higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times higher activity. The optimization of Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and stability information under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has spurred extensive research. Studies often concentrate on surface and subsurface structures under vacuum, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur in environments with adsorbates that can modify surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Thus, understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for optimizing their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that Pt and Pd in surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit significant surface segregation after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may stem from lower Pd content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and size mismatch between guest and host metals. Larger guest metals like Pt and Pd favor segregation due to tensile stress in the outer Ru layer. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits unique antisegregation behavior even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface migration to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These insights are pivotal for understanding bimetallic catalysts' catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predictions, verified experimentally, show these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen but segregate with oxygen. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, observed in both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in different environments, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental results correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, bridging the materials gap from single crystal to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulation results indicate Pd atoms segregate to the surface, with Pt concentration increasing towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, Fe dissolution in a PtFe alloy leads to a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further studies on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer are underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for understanding the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, particularly in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and other transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity compared to pure Pt, due in part to surface segregation. This process leads to the formation of a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer, enhancing stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co is typically unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces, as surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation is crucial for Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have been used to study surface segregation trends in Pt alloy systems, revealing the components of surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process involves interlayer migration of impurity atoms, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetics viewpoint.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) alters surface adsorption properties, mainly due to the direct involvement of 3d metals on or beneath the surface. The stability of Pt-skin surfaces in Pt-3d alloys is enhanced compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and enhancing catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation leading to a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation affects the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition. These changes highlight the role of surface structure in influencing catalytic properties, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cheaper alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For instance, the growth of Ag on a Pt(1 0 0) surface evolves with temperature, affecting the catalyst's performance. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures also facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, indicating that reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structure and, consequently, its catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. NSA stability is assessed in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can influence surface components, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation is estimated by comparing energies. Deviations from idealized NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This effect is determined by the Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M crystals relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with the former group of metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas the latter group prevents it entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is significantly influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for optimal activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure's stabilization through alloying makes surface Pt atoms more resistant to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding, due to atomic O's anion-like nature, preferring ionic bonds. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a beneficial element, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo exhibits a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitating ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity, as a lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under varying thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like CuPt alloys, exhibit unique stability, surface segregation, and structural configurations. Contrary to expectations, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm these observations, showing increased CO binding energy and weakening of the PtCO bond with more Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, the crystal plane's influence on subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen exposure is pivotal, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. Crystal plane variations determine subsurface stability and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface complexity due to the presence of a second metal in various states, exhibit superior catalytic properties compared to monometallic counterparts. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. The segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor impact, while strong ones, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Conversely, oxidizing conditions induce 3d metal segregation to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d metals exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability can decrease under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surface, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in various applications. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers, leading to different Fe-Pt surface configurations. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding of structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, as evidenced by enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has spurred extensive research. Studies have primarily focused on surface and subsurface structures under vacuum, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can influence segregation trends and surface composition. Therefore, understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for optimizing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was restored, indicating complete segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface layer, with slight Pt loss. The stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd segregation over Ru. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying, suggests a probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the initial layers of catalytic alloys significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface segregation and atomic distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its surface retention on Pt (Quote 1). Immiscibility at high Au compositions keeps Au atop Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (Quote 2). Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO (Quote 3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles (Quote 8). These factors affect catalytic properties and performance in applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various conditions is critical for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and polycrystalline Pt, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using DFT and experiments, correlating with d-band center differences. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship links thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. AES results show two segregation regions, aligning DFT predictions with polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the surface and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, influencing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed in 0.1 M HClO4 solution via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, demonstrating the influence of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity compared to pure Pt, addressing its sluggish kinetics in PEM fuel cells. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, making the process thermodynamically favorable, while Co is unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces, with surface Co atoms tending to migrate to the second layer. Consequently, continuous Co segregation is unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies by Stamenkovic et al. demonstrate that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in many Pt alloy systems. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process and can be observed in acidic solutions. The segregation model successfully interprets these phenomena, particularly from a kinetics viewpoint, with the pathway from an impurity atom in the second layer to the Pt(111) surface being exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems alter surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and delaying the dissolution of Pt atoms to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, changes the composition of adsorption ensembles and the electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes affect the activity and selectivity of the catalyst, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface. The study reveals that surface structure significantly impacts adsorption properties, with ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, enhancing ORR activities, especially in Pt-3d metal alloys. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures, not just surface geometry. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic properties. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, forming elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to nanophasic alloying confined to the surface layer, which spreads with sufficient Ag to establish uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. The stability of NSAs is evaluated in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency assessed by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, doping with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir strengthens Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent it entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote [1]). However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface (Quote [2]). Pt2Ti skin alloys exhibit surface vacancies with OTi bonding, which are more stable than those with OPt bonding (Quote [6]). Under electrochemical conditions, alloys generally have lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, emphasizing the importance of zero oxygen coverage for stability and activity (Quote [8]). Among various Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote [9]). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with the barrier to OOH dissociation being a key parameter for OR activity (Quote [10]). Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V) (Quote [14]). The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote [19]). Pt2Mo skin alloys with 30% Mo content achieve higher stability and activity than other compositions (Quote [20]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, influencing catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity, which is crystal plane-dependent.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallics offer greater surface complexity, with the second metal in various states and regions, critical for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structure changes dynamically during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells typically exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, promoting 3d metal surface segregation. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface-subsurface interchange, whereas strong electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, driving surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) in Pt-based alloys prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, cause 3d TMs to segregate to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common, driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the segregation process, whereas oxygen adsorption can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, contribute to structural dynamics, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation-reduction cycles, affect catalytic properties in various applications. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers on Pt. Different reactions produce distinct Fe-Pt surface configurations, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions. For instance, Fe49Pt51 alloys with 100% Pt topmost layer had 25 times the activity of pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has spurred extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, understanding segregation under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under these conditions is essential for optimizing their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability of these alloys is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch between guest (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) metals. Larger guest metals favor inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied to understand the floating behavior. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region can be estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. The arrangement of atoms in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface atomic distribution and understanding segregation's effect on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy compared to Pt (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2) and their immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention when deposited on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles forming.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in various conditions is critical for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations favored with oxygen. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability trends predict the same thermodynamically preferred configuration across environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surface to bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer is underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening. This finding is significant for the design of high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Pt's slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, particularly the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, while Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co's, which is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the importance of surface segregation for catalytic properties. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with Au's exothermic segregation contrasting Co's endothermic process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, follows the opposite order of oxygen adsorption strengths in the studied alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and leading to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties significantly. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, changes the composition of adsorption ensembles and the electronic interactions between metallic constituents, impacting the catalytic activity and selectivity. The surface structure's effect on adsorption properties is evident through changes in ensemble and electronic interactions for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. It dramatically changes the catalytic activities of alloys. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have been explored as alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural modifications. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems. The electronic structures modified through surface segregation are the main factor for enhanced ORR activities, not the geometric effect. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For instance, the growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface demonstrates this influence. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that these factors can affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these processes. Selected NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is evaluated in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface they bind strongly to. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys like Pt3Ni (111), the addition of a third transition metal modifies Pt surface segregation. Elements like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir lower Pt segregation energy, promoting surface Pt concentration. Conversely, Ag, Au, and Pd increase segregation energy, inhibiting Pt surface presence. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects from the doped element collectively influence Pt segregation. Replacing Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent it entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is significantly influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys generally exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for achieving high activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure reveals that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. This is due to less coordinated Pt atoms at the surface vacancy having more active d-states, which bond more strongly with O atoms. The second layer atoms' exposure allows for stronger OM bond formation compared to OPt bonds. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding, consistent with atomic O's anion-like behavior, preferring ionic-bond formation. Under electrochemical conditions, Pt alloys' stability is generally lower than pure Pt's, emphasizing the importance of zero oxygen coverage for optimal performance. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a beneficial element for forming stable surfaces at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction's potential profile. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo skin alloys achieve the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, opening new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest potential applications in a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, particularly in water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, affecting subsurface stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, influencing catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity and superior catalytic properties compared to monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells exhibit a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) reside in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, cause 3d TMs to segregate to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, illustrating the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common and can be modulated by gas treatments. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. In oxidative conditions, 3d metals oxidize, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Hydrogen presence does not affect the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases, contribute to surface structure oscillations, crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as seen in Fe49Pt51 alloys. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is critical for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation closely relates to activity improvements, as Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys showed four times higher ORR rates. Studying segregation under adsorbates is essential, as they can modify surface composition and thus catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit significant surface segregation after re-alloying, with nearly complete restoration of the original composition, indicating strong segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface. A slight Pt loss was observed. The stability differences may be attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with the observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the host (Ru) favors surface segregation. The floating behavior, studied through preparation steps, showed that Pt and Pd can be dissolved in the subsurface region during surface alloy formation, estimated by a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, inducing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility at >17% Au composition favor Au's surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    