Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predictions show stability in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and extended to polycrystalline Pt to assess kinetic barriers for segregation. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are confirmed through DFT and experiments on single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements verify segregation and activation barriers. AES results show two segregation regions, aligning DFT predictions with polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations favored with 0.5 ML O.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results indicate Pd atoms segregate to the outer layers, with Pt concentration increasing from surfaces to the bulk, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys triggers the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic performance in fuel cells. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times more active than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening. This finding is significant for the design of high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt is a popular cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, but its slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) limits efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and other transition metals, have enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, leading to a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, while Co is typically unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation plays a key role in the catalytic efficiency of Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by the four times higher reaction rate of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt catalysts. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys, revealing critical processes such as interlayer migration and vacancy movement.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing affects the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption are observed upon alloy formation, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition. These changes highlight the role of surface structure in influencing adsorption properties and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, and metal corrosion. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the prime electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by less expensive metals, have been explored as alternatives. Surface segregation notably enhances ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the critical role of surface segregation in catalytic activities. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the primary factor for enhanced ORR activities in Pt-skin surfaces. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studying the Ag-Pt system, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form at room temperature, evolving into a nanophasic alloy with increased temperature. Annealing above 600K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to a uniform surface alloy. This temperature-dependent behavior suggests that thermodynamic factors can influence the structural dynamics and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys strongly segregate Pt, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing new NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and potentially easing hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni, making it more negative, while Ag, Au, and Pd lead to positive segregation energies, suppressing Pt surface presence. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir strengthens Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd substitution prohibits it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit altered stability and catalytic properties under electrochemical conditions, influenced by oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt atoms at vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. Second layer atoms exposed at vacancies can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Atomic O on metals prefers ionic-bond formation. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same O coverage under electrochemical conditions, with zero O coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being key for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The aqueous environment and in situ O coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance. Low Mo content (e.g., Pt5Mo) may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (e.g., PtMo) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly affect the stability of subsurface 3d metals under oxygen exposure, impacting catalytic performance in applications like ORR. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), revealing crystal plane effects on ORR activity.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals in the subsurface region. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions. This dynamic allows for the tuning of catalytic activity and selectivity in bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO), 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity [3]. The interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity is crucial [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation, while hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxidative conditions can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Reaction environments with adsorbates can modify surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability differences are linked to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences, favoring Pt and Pd segregation, and size mismatch, promoting inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, impact the floating behavior, with distinct growth patterns observed for Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001).", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation. Surface atomic arrangement, notably in the first layers, significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using Δεd, correlating with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT and experiments on single crystal and polycrystalline substrates bridge the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show correlation of stability with d-band center difference, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results indicate Pd segregation to the surface and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surface to bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed through increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is explained by the 5d-vacancy of the surface, illustrating the influence of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems, and their consequent catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is pivotal, enhancing catalyst stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favored, unlike Co, which struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movements, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process. Pt-skin surfaces, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the components of surface and subsurface regions. The dissolution of metal atoms and rearrangement of Pt atoms in acidic solutions highlight the dynamic nature of these alloys. The segregation model interprets these phenomena, particularly from a kinetic perspective, confirming that Co segregation to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly alter surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces. This stability enhancement, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, follows the order of oxygen adsorption strengths, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Despite the influence of adsorbates on stability, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability compared to pure Pt under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature influences the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities due to changes in surface composition. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface, affects properties like permeation and catalytic efficiency. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, notably in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects, as the surface bond length deviation is minimal. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Ag growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis followed by hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs confirm modified catalytic activity, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni. Transition metals that promote stronger Pt segregation to the surface include V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Molybdenum (Mo) is identified as a beneficial element that can alloy with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, and the barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, opening new avenues for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis. Adsorbate bonding changes local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest potential for engineering surfaces for catalysis in water-gas shift reactions and extend to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal planes influence subsurface stability and surface segregation, crucial for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts offer enhanced surface structural complexity and superior catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals in the subsurface region. Surface structure dynamics, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under changing redox conditions, allow for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity in bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions, particularly in Pt-based systems, is critical as it modifies catalytic properties. Annealing reveals that subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect on surface/subsurface interchange, while strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding to 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant for real-world catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Pt-skin surfaces' unique catalytic properties are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structure stability can diminish under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Preparation methods and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers, influencing surface structural configurations. For oxygen reduction, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times greater activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Studies show that the unusual catalytic activity is closely related to surface segregation, as evidenced by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces. However, catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with various adsorbates, which can alter surface segregation trends and surface composition, making it critical to study Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption for a comprehensive understanding of their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences, decreasing in order from Ru(0001), Pt(111) to Pd(111), and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied to understand floating behavior. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) suggests factors like Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences impact surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility with Pt (at Au >17%) favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature on PtAu clusters enhances Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to surface migrate for CO binding. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces, as Pt ensembles are unlikely. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are confirmed on single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in Pt3dPt(100) vs. Pt3dPt(111). Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in different environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT and experimental results correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, bridging the materials gap from single crystal to polycrystalline substrates. All bimetallic systems follow a general stability trend, with subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and Pt concentration gradients in PtPd nanoparticles, with Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structural configuration of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. In PtFe alloys, specific conditions lead to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further studies on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer are ongoing to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, crucial for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. Maximum activity, 25 times higher than pure Pt, is achieved at around 50% Fe content. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation to the Pt(111) surface indicates thermodynamic favorability, whereas Co's migration to the second layer in PtCo alloys suggests prohibitive kinetics for continuous segregation. Surface segregation's role is exemplified by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces is four times higher than on pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process in acidic solutions. The model explains these phenomena, particularly from a kinetic perspective, confirming that Co's segregation to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both clean and under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance. The presence of adsorbates affects catalyst stability, but Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability under adsorbate coverage, with a positive potential shift indicating delayed Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing modifies the surface structure of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) catalysts, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation are key factors. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption are observed. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the prime electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s study showing a four-fold increase in ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces of Pt3Co alloys. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the primary factor for catalytic enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studies on Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) reveal that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 form. Upon annealing above 600 K, extensive alloying occurs, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands through AgPt exchange, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. AES studies show that Ag mixes with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces offer improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding, weakly akin to noble metals yet facilitating easier H2 dissociation, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. A two-step method assesses NSA stability, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially attract alloy components they strongly bind. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs show promise for low-temperature hydrogenation, enhancing selectivity in pharmaceutical production and potentially simplifying hydrogen storage. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while doping with Ag, Au, and Pd suppresses it. The extent of Pt surface segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with the former group of transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas replacing it with the latter group prohibits Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution, as inferred from the Pt d-band structure. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt atoms at vacancies bond more strongly with O atoms due to less coordination and more active d-states, and OM bonds at vacancies are stronger than OPt bonds. Under electrochemical conditions, alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same O coverage, but maintaining zero O coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, enhancing OR activity. The stability and activity balance is best achieved in Pt2Mo skin alloys, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. The findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. Implications include enhanced catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with crystal planes impacting ORR activity, crucial for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity and superior catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals in the subsurface region. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This interplay affects catalytic properties, as demonstrated by Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs showing high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the critical role of structure and environment in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation, but oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metals to segregate due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe modifying the electronic structure of surface Pt, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Surface structural configurations can transform under cycles of oxidation and reduction, influencing catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires precise control of surface structural configurations and understanding stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Reaction conditions and adsorbates influence segregation trends, altering surface composition and, consequently, catalytic properties. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their catalytic performance, as evidenced by a four-fold increase in ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys using STM and AES revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original surface composition was nearly restored, indicating significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt. Slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability differences may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly influenced by segregation, critically affects catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures, critical for catalytic properties, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. Experimental verification on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirms these predictions. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using DFT and experimental approaches, with Δεd used to screen bimetallic alloys. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify segregation and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends show correlation of stability with d-band center difference, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results indicate Pd atoms preferentially segregate to the outer layers and (100) facets of PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. These phenomena have direct implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer enhances the alloy's stability and catalytic properties, particularly in fuel cell applications, by shielding it from corrosion. Further studies on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, are ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, particularly the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, an exothermic process, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to prohibitive kinetics. Studies show that Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys. The segregation process, involving interlayer migration and vacancy dynamics, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process, especially in acidic solutions. The model explains these phenomena, highlighting the thermodynamic and kinetic barriers for Co segregation on Pt(111) surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, with subsurface 3d atoms playing a protective role by enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces. This stability enhancement is observed under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, and the degree of stability correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and enhancing catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature influences the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming surface morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure modifications affect adsorption properties, explained by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Annealing-induced changes in surface morphology lead to significant alterations in CO and deuterium adsorption properties, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, significantly influences catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, impacts properties like permeation and surface adsorption. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cheaper alternatives have focused on Pt-based alloys. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals are attributed to surface segregation, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., where the ORR on Pt-skin surfaces of Pt3Co alloys showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates. The electronic structure modified by surface segregation is crucial for enhanced catalytic activities, not just the surface geometry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions influence catalyst properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit a strong Pt surface segregation tendency, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding strengths, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity compared to bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. The stability of NSAs is assessed in vacuum and with hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but this does not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt surface segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with specific transition metals modifies the driving energy for Pt segregation, influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt2Mo, exhibit enhanced stability and catalytic activity under electrochemical conditions. The stability of clean alloy surfaces is inferred from the Pt d-band structure, indicating that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen coverage significantly affects stability, with alloys generally being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. In the presence of adsorbed O atoms, Pt removal is facilitated due to the stronger stabilization of surface vacancies by O atoms. Pt2Mo shows a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier towards OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as an ideal element for alloying with Pt, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties and ORR activity, with crystal planes playing a role in subsurface stability and ORR performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions. This tunability offers opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes during oxidation or reduction are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes have significant implications for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the electronic structure modification by subsurface Fe, affecting surface species adsorption and reaction. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under different conditions have implications for catalytic performance in various applications, including oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times greater activity in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires precise control of surface configurations and understanding of structural stability under elevated temperatures and different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is critical for catalysis, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt, closely linked to surface segregation. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, making the study of segregation trends under such conditions essential for understanding and optimizing Pt-based catalysts' performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed near-complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps showed floating behavior, and a Boltzmann approach estimated Pt (Pd) dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy than Pt (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2) and their immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to surface migrate for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in varying conditions is pivotal for catalytic properties and performance, particularly in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predictions, verified experimentally, indicate these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen but segregate with oxygen. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, predicted from DFT and confirmed on single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, shows subsurface structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. The difference in oxygen binding energy for surface and subsurface configurations is significant, impacting catalytic activity. The Δεd can screen bimetallic alloys for stability in different environments, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions if intermediates bind too strongly on the surface. Conversely, surface structures with optimal binding could prevent reactions if subsurface structures bind too weakly. DFT results predict subsurface PtMPt(111) configurations are preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) configurations are favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements support these predictions, revealing two regions of segregation and bridging the materials gap between single crystal and polycrystalline substrates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations reveal Pd segregation to the surface and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is explained by the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, demonstrating the influence of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt is a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, but its ORR kinetics limit efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have shown enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, enhancing stability. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, whereas Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co, which has a higher tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation boosts catalytic activity, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces, which have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The dissolution of metal atoms creates defects critical for surface rearrangement, observed in acidic solutions. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is well-modeled, explaining phenomena from a kinetic perspective. The exothermic nature of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process for Co, further supporting the thermodynamic and kinetic prohibitions against Co segregation on clean Pt(111) surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This affects the catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are crucial, impacting the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, especially when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role in this enhancement, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., who found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Theoretical approaches reveal that surface electronic structure and bond length are critical factors for enhanced activities. For Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the surface bond length deviation after Pt segregation is minimal, indicating that electronic structure modifications, not geometry, are primarily responsible for enhanced ORR activities. Surface segregation is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. This temperature-dependent behavior suggests that reaction conditions can significantly affect bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing new NSAs for these processes. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface they bind strongly to, and hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may differ from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent Pt surface segregation entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in the clean state. Oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions significantly affects alloy stability, with Pt alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for high activity and stability. Among various Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR), with OOH dissociation barrier as a key parameter for OR activity. The stability and activity of Pt2Mo are optimal, with a 30% Mo content, achieving a balance that neither high nor low Mo content can match.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is explained by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results, confirmed by DFT calculations, indicate changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy, with implications for catalytic properties in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane orientation influences the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen exposure, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity, with the second metal present in various states, crucial for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface-subsurface interchange, whereas strong electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TM exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Surface structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is critical for understanding Pt-based alloys' performance in various applications, as evidenced by a four-fold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt, with near-complete restoration of original composition after re-alloying. A slight Pt loss occurs during this step. Surface alloy stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied, showing that Pt (Pd) can dissolve in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show segregation, while Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its presence atop Pt, and immiscibility at high Au compositions reinforcing this. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface migration to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces, due to the lack of neighboring Pt sites. These dynamics impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, as they are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but segregate with adsorbed oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Δεd can screen alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in various conditions. The difference in binding energies highlights the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen, verified experimentally. AES results confirm segregation behavior, and activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher for Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show the correlation of stability with d-band center applies beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, creating a corrosion-resistant layer. This has significant implications for catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-Fe alloys, reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the outer layer, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation to the surface is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co's migration to the second layer in PtCo makes continuous segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., show four times higher ORR activity than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The dissolution of metal atoms and rearrangement of Pt atoms, especially in acidic solutions, are critical to the segregation process, which includes interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration. The segregation model interprets these phenomena from a kinetic perspective, highlighting the exothermic process in PtAu and endothermic in PtCo, confirming Co's segregation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation impacts the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are observed. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) reveals the surface structure and distribution of components, showing sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, impacts materials science and surface chemistry, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some platinum. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys increase ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Ag growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands (Ag80Pt20) at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs defy the norm by enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced segregation is predicted by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects from the doped element M influence Pt segregation energy. The extent of Pt surface segregation is determined by relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir increases Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are typically less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, emphasizing the importance of zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms' exposure allows for stronger OM bond formation than OPt bonds. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role for OOH dissociation in OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. Aqueous environments and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance. Low Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks activity, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the subsurface stability of 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, affecting oxygen-induced segregation and ORR activity. DFT calculations predict subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with crystal planes influencing ORR performance. These factors determine bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity and catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts. The second metal, in metallic or oxidized form, can be surface-exposed, subsurface, or bulk-embedded, critically affecting catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based bimetallics outperform pure Pt in reactions. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals that subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's effect modulated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d transition metals (TMs) under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size (Quote [1]). Under oxidizing conditions, strong O-3d TM interaction causes surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands (Quote [2]). This structural dynamics significantly impacts catalytic properties; for example, Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism (Quote [3]). The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for alloy catalyst performance (Quote [4]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common, driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes in Pt-based catalysts are significant for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Surface structural configurations transform under varying conditions, impacting catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is critical for catalysis, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals highlight the importance of surface segregation. Studying segregation under surface adsorption, common in catalytic reactions like the ORR, is essential as adsorbates can modify surface composition and catalytic properties. This research is vital for understanding and optimizing the performance of Pt-based catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with nearly complete restoration of the original alloy composition. A slight Pt loss was noted. The stability variance is attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Larger guest metals (Pt, Pd) in a tensile stressed outermost Ru layer favor surface segregation due to size mismatch. Annealing and Ru deposition steps were crucial for observing floating behavior and estimating Pt (Pd) dissolution probability using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorption on Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys influences surface segregation, with Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibiting antisegregation even under oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, significantly affected by segregation, critically determines catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like CO adsorption, influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, impacting Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion for CO binding. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is crucial for catalytic properties, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant, PtTiPt most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends are quantifiable through DFT and experiments, with Δεd aiding alloy screening. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen, verified experimentally. AES results confirm segregation behavior, showing DFT predictions apply to polycrystalline substrates. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends in stability correlation extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk in PtPd nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd atoms preferentially segregating to (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "The electrocatalytic activity of Pt is significantly enhanced by alloying with Fe, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, underscoring the role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt-based alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, whereas Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Studies reveal that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation trends have been identified for many Pt alloy systems, with surface and subsurface components characterized. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process in acidic solutions and can be interpreted from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which bind strongly to the Pt surface layer. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, leading to enhanced catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate. Pt-skin surfaces show enhanced stability even under adsorbate coverage, indicating delayed Pt dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation affects the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between metals, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to surface structure and composition. These changes highlight the importance of surface structure in influencing the catalytic properties of bimetallic surfaces, particularly in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with less expensive metals replacing some Pt, have been explored as alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Ag growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands (Ag80Pt20) at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, enhancing their utility in hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, indicating potential for practical nanofabrication strategies to control catalyst surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doped elements affect Pt segregation through surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. The stabilization of the Pt d-band through alloying makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The stability of surfaces follows the order Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo exhibiting higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A low Mo content may achieve higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content will destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, suggesting new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis in Pt-based systems, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes affect the thermodynamic stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, influencing surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, especially ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit greater surface complexity, with the second metal present in various states, crucial for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure changes dynamically during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Eseg determines surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d transition metals (TMs) under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Conversely, under oxidizing conditions, strong O-3d TM interaction causes surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, contribute to structural dynamics. These findings are significant for real-world catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe modifying the electronic structure of surface Pt, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability can diminish under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, influenced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Fe-Pt structures with metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has attracted extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can alter surface segregation trends and composition, thus affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original surface alloy composition of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) was almost fully restored, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability differences may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd showing a tendency to segregate due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) host favors surface segregation by providing additional driving force.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly affected by the arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's top layers, critically impacts catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface presence. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, which is hindered on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of Pt ensembles, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    