Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends, showing subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations in oxygen. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental results on single crystals apply to polycrystalline substrates, highlighting the importance of understanding stability in reacting environments. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends in stability correlate with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results highlight Pd segregation to the surface, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms exhibit a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, which has implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer forms due to increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement at the surface, shielding the PtFe alloy from corrosion, which is crucial for its catalytic performance in fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe at 50% content boosts electrocatalytic activity 25-fold compared to pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, highlighting the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to the investigation of Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation process contrasts with Co's endothermic process, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation's role is evident in the four times higher ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical process of interlayer migration and vacancy movement for understanding the rearrangement process in acidic solutions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing stability of Pt-skin surfaces in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. 3d subsurface atoms play a protective role, modifying electronic and geometric properties, which enhances catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties. This change, influenced by ensemble and electronic interactions, impacts catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to surface structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, an efficient catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, sees enhanced ORR activities in alloys with 3d metals, like Pt3Co, due to surface segregation. Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force of surface segregation, which is also governed by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, impacting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces. Annealing above 600 K induces AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy that spreads uniformly across the surface. Higher temperatures enable Ag to mix with bulk Pt, illustrating how reaction conditions modify the catalyst's structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. The stability of NSAs can be assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage, requiring precise control of surface structure for optimal catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The extent of Pt segregation is governed by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, influenced by the doped element M. Stronger Pt segregation occurs with Ni replaced by transition metals, while Pt segregation is prevented when Ni is replaced by Ag, Au, and Pd.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt2Mo, is significantly affected by oxygen coverage. Zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (0.9 V) is crucial for achieving high activity and stability. Pt atoms at surface vacancies bond more strongly with O atoms, facilitating Pt removal. Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potentials (1.05 V), with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) and a key barrier for OOH dissociation. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitating the reaction. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is driven by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, highlighting the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes' influence on subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts under oxygen, as predicted by DFT, impacts surface segregation, structural dynamics, and ORR activity, crucial for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals in the subsurface, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts, offering opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing, indicating subsurface stability. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, reflecting a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions promote surface segregation, affecting structural dynamics. These changes enhance catalytic activity, as atomic dispersed 3d TMs on Pt(111) surfaces boost CO oxidation. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal for Pt-based alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, as evidenced by a study showing 100% selectivity [1]. Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts enhances catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), compared to pure Pt. Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface, boost ORR activity fourfold. Adsorbates under operating conditions influence segregation trends, altering surface composition and catalytic properties. Studying segregation under adsorbates is crucial for understanding Pt-based alloys' catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES confirmed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability is influenced by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch between guest (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) metals. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps, suggests Pt and Pd segregation to the surface layer due to tensile stress in the outermost Ru layer. Distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site on (211) surfaces of Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of surface structure in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, while CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in binding CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions and quantify activation barriers for segregation. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability for other bimetallic systems. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures with optimal binding properties may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) has higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations in oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, PtFe alloys form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for the catalytic properties of PtFe alloys in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, reaction conditions significantly affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, influencing catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not just interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to sluggish ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity, attributed to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring Au segregation, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces, as it migrates to the second layer more readily. Pt-skin surfaces, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation trends have been identified for many Pt alloy systems, with the dissolution of metal atoms critical to the rearrangement process. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is well interpreted by a kinetic model. For PtAu, segregation is exothermic, whereas for PtCo, it is endothermic, making Co segregation to the clean Pt(111) surface both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties, improving Pt-skin stability and catalytic performance. This stability enhancement, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, leading to improved catalytic properties like increased oxygen reduction reaction rate. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate. Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This affects probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition, highlighting the critical role of surface structure in catalytic properties, especially for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to find alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. These alloys, especially when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activities due to surface segregation. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and conditions like temperature and the presence of adsorbates govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces results in elongated 2D-adislands with a specific Ag-Pt composition. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry across the surface. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the critical role of reaction conditions in bimetallic catalysts' structural dynamics and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction catalytic activity. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "NSAs, notably Pt-based alloys, exhibit exceptional hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, pivotal for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Their stability can be assessed by evaluating vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates, particularly hydrogen, can induce surface segregation by attracting alloy components they bind strongly to. A reliable estimate of hydrogen's tendency to cause segregation is made by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer potential for high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, aiding in selective hydrogenation reactions and hydrogen storage, crucial for pharmaceuticals and hydrogen economy.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Transition metals' influence on Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces varies: V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance it, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution from the doped element M affect Pt segregation energy. Pt segregation is determined by relative surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals strengthens Pt surface segregation, whereas substituting with Ag, Au, and Pd prevents it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Surface vacancies expose less coordinated Pt atoms with more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms at the surface vacancy can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Mo skin alloys achieve the best balance of stability and activity, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, and the optimum Mo content is 30%. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is critical for high activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, oxygen's effect on 3d metal segregation varies by crystal plane, impacting subsurface stability and ORR activity, crucial for catalytic performance. DFT calculations confirm these dynamics, highlighting the role of crystal orientation in Pt-3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with greater surface complexity, surpass monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics, featuring Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in subsurface regions, exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically alter during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering potential to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum upon annealing. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the critical role of structure and reaction environment in catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and excel in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in high-performance catalyst design. Pt-skin structures may degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation-reduction cycles, impact catalytic performance. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction, with Fe49Pt51 alloys 25 times more active. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under varying atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts enhances catalytic activities, particularly in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), due to thermodynamic preferences. Pt alloys with 3d metals show significantly improved ORR activities over pure Pt, with surface segregation closely linked to this enhancement. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit four times the ORR rate of pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is crucial, as adsorbates can alter these trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys via STM and AES show almost complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to lower Pd content, 2D distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly affected by segregation, is crucial for catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences favor Au's surface retention on Pt due to lower free energy and immiscibility. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These insights affect catalytic properties and performance in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but 3d atoms segregate to the surface with oxygen. PtNiPt resists, PtTiPt succumbs to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, verified experimentally. Δεd screens alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT and experiments confirm subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like PtPd alloys. Simulation results show Pd segregation to the surface and a Pt concentration gradient from surface to bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer is formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shielding the alloy from corrosion and enhancing its stability and catalytic properties, crucial for fuel cell applications. Ongoing studies are exploring its electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, surface segregation under varying reaction conditions enhances stability and catalytic efficiency, crucial for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based alloys, like PtAu and PtCo, exhibit improved ORR activity due to Pt-skin formation on the surface. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu, unlike Co in PtCo, where surface migration is thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation significantly boosts ORR activity, with Pt-skin surfaces demonstrating a fourfold increase in reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Recent studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, highlighting the importance of surface segregation for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. The addition of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption properties and stability of Pt-skin surfaces, observed under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability correlates with oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects are crucial upon alloy formation, with surface structure and composition playing a significant role, as observed by STM. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure highlights the importance of surface configuration in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation, influencing the catalytic properties of these alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of silver form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface with a specific composition. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying at the perimeter of the Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions can influence the structural dynamics and stability of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability and surface dynamics under varying conditions. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, which are pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory, predicting catalytic behavior. Select NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in two steps: composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation is estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from models, but this doesn't significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques, is needed to fully benefit from NSAs' unique catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, surface segregation is influenced by doping elements: V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution determine the extent of Pt surface concentration. Elements promoting Pt segregation lead to stronger surface concentration, whereas those suppressing it prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is critical for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a favorable element for alloying with Pt, forming a stable surface at high potentials (Quote 9). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, making it an efficient catalyst (Quote 10). The stability hierarchy under high potentials shows that Pt2Mo is the most stable, followed by Pt and other Pt2M alloys (Quote 14). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 19). Pt2Mo skin alloys achieve the best balance of stability and activity, with low Mo content providing higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly influence oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals, affecting subsurface stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation, critical for understanding catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity, crucial for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals demonstrate superior catalytic performance. Surface structure changes dynamically during reactions, influenced by redox potential, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating stability preferences. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, suggesting a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with negative Eseg promoting admetal surface migration and positive Eseg favoring subsurface retention. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys. Reductive conditions push 3d TMs into subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, conversely, cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs are highly active for CO oxidation, demonstrating the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by treatments in various gases. Surface segregation favors Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to its larger atomic radius, facilitating strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, forming oxides that encapsulate Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity in CO oxidation and hydrogenation activity, attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in high-performance catalyst design. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe demonstrate higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly enhances catalytic activities, particularly in the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), compared to pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence these trends and change surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. This research is essential for understanding and optimizing the performance of Pt-based catalysts in various applications, as demonstrated by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES found that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show strong surface segregation of Pd and Pt, with near-complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying. Slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. Surface alloy stability is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences, favoring Pt and Pd segregation, and size mismatch between guest and host metals. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, impact surface morphology and structure. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D component distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic distribution, critical for catalytic activity, is significantly impacted by segregation, affecting the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility favoring its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as density functional theory confirms. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining the absence of oxidation on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of Pt ensembles, crucial insights for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces surface segregation, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental results on single crystal surfaces apply to polycrystalline substrates, showing general stability trends for bimetallic systems in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration in bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets in the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Ongoing research is exploring the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. Surface segregation leads to a pure Pt-skin, improving stability and boosting ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co, which is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive in PtCo alloys. These findings are consistent with studies showing enhanced ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of annealed alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength, which enhances catalytic properties like increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting reaction rates, and the stability of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and electronic interactions, which affects catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure and composition, observable by STM, influence adsorption, demonstrating sensitivity to local structure and composition. Annealing-induced changes in surface morphology lead to altered CO and deuterium adsorption, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic properties. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface, alters physical and chemical properties, notably enhancing catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Alternative catalysts, focusing on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR on Pt-skin structures of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K triggers AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy confined to the surface layer. With enough Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting how thermodynamic factors and reaction conditions influence structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, weakly attaching atomic hydrogen like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, making them crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with exceptional NSAs allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. This is beneficial for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step procedure: first, considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, which is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models exist but do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of surface structure is essential for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, suggesting advancements in nanofabrication techniques are imminent.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, while replacing it with suppressing metals prevents Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for achieving high activity and stability. Among various Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as an ideal element for alloying with Pt, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier towards OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems is crystal plane-dependent, influencing subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting ORR activity, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic catalysts in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering a means to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in determining surface structure and catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalyst stability, with 3d TMs favoring subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, lead to 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces enriched with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, demonstrating the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, influencing stability and catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial for catalytic processes in Pt-based bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Pt-skin surfaces, with subsurface Fe, exhibit unique catalytic properties due to modified electronic structures, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, crucial for designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions impact catalytic performance in applications such as oxygen reduction and CO preferential oxidation, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt, especially in Fe49Pt51 alloys, which are 25 times more active. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, driven by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt. Enhanced ORR activities are closely tied to the Pt-skin structure formed by surface segregation, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption, common in catalytic reactions, is critical for optimizing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that surface segregation of Pd and Pt occurs after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) display segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Catalytic activity hinges on surface atomic distribution, underscoring the significance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences favor Au's surface retention on Pt due to lower surface free energy and immiscibility. CO adsorption promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Contiguous Pt sites are crucial for CO oxidation, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface migration for CO binding is thermodynamically favorable.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom surface segregation. Experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. The trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, creating a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for the alloy's catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing research on its electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25x more active than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is pivotal for designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts for polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt, a critical cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) kinetics. Recent studies highlight enhanced ORR activity in Pt-based alloys, attributed to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface migration, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces due to kinetic and thermodynamic barriers. Surface segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling reaction rates compared to pure Pt, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al. This highlights the critical role of surface segregation in the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions enhance the stability of Pt-skin surfaces, outperforming pure Pt in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. The protective role of 3d subsurface atoms boosts catalytic properties, including increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability, facilitating adsorbate removal and enhancing overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) surfaces into PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. Surface structure, influenced by local composition, critically affects catalytic activity and selectivity, highlighting the importance of structural dynamics in bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic properties due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface or sub-surface layers, alters physical and chemical properties, notably enhancing catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by chemical composition, enhancing catalytic effects. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a four-fold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0), transforming into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing above 600K. AES studies indicate that elevated temperatures promote AgPt exchange, affecting structural dynamics and stability, with implications for catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), particularly in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. These NSAs can bind atomic hydrogen weakly while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. Stability is assessed through a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by the energy difference in hydrogen binding between solute and host. A reliable estimate of hydrogen-induced segregation can be made by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the difference in hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and host. Most solute/host transition metal pairs do not show hydrogen-induced surface segregation at low temperatures and pressures. Oxygen, sulphur, and CO have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation than hydrogen. Deviations from ideal NSA structures do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is essential for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, with advancements in nanofabrication techniques promising improved NSA development. NSAs offer potential for selective hydrogenation reactions and hydrogen separation and storage, benefiting pharmaceutical compound production.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect stability, surface segregation, and structure. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Pt segregation is determined by relative energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with promoting metals enhances Pt segregation, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt under the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for optimal activity and stability. Alloying with Mo, as in Pt2Mo, enhances stability and lowers the kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OR activity. The stability of clean alloy surfaces is inferred from the Pt d-band structure, indicating that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Surface vacancies in Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding, aligning with the anion-like behavior of atomic O on metals. Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potentials, following a similar ORR profile to Pt, with OOH dissociation as a key kinetic parameter. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This behavior is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings open up new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. Adsorbate-induced surface changes can be a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes' influence on oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems affects subsurface stability. DFT predicts this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting ORR activity, crucial for understanding catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with complex surface structures, outperform monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as observed in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions promote surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, influencing catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring Pt due to its larger atomic radius, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are crucial in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions [1,2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces, attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, enhance adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts [4]. Surface transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, linked to unusual catalytic activity, has sparked extensive research. Studies often concentrate on surface structures under vacuum, but adsorbates in reaction environments can significantly influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Therefore, understanding segregation under surface adsorption is crucial for optimizing Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is nearly restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface, though some Pt is lost. The stability variance is attributed to Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt's (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with Pt and Pd's segregation tendency. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied, revealing the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, component distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based (211) surfaces, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution in catalytic alloys significantly influences activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation's impact on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites, explaining its absence on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors critically influence catalytic performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic properties. DFT predictions and experimental evidence confirm stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd values can screen alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results show Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, shields the alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, achieving a 25-fold increase at 50% Fe content, critical for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, underscoring the role of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the alloy surface, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. found that ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process in acidic solutions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals enhance Pt-skin surface stability, protecting against oxygen adsorption and delaying Pt atom dissolution. This stability enhancement, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, positively shifts potential, improving oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity, as probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition demonstrates.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, significantly influences catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, demonstrating the impact of surface segregation on catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties. In Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, temperature alters the structure of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, forming elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, indicating that reaction conditions can alter the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, impacting their performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Stability is assessed in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be predicted by comparing the solute's segregation energy to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the solute and host. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation and storage, highlighting the need for precise control of metal catalyst surface structure for optimal catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. This is governed by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, influenced by the doped element. Promoting metals enhance Pt segregation, while suppressing metals restrict Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys like Pt-3d alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which hinders surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface (Quote 2). Pt2Mo stands out as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (1.05 V), with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, making OOH dissociation a key kinetic parameter for OR activity (Quote 10). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A low Mo content may achieve higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content will destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes' effect on oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based catalysts impacts subsurface stability and ORR activity, as predicted by DFT calculations. This highlights structural dynamics' role in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity critical for catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based bimetallics show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically favored in Pt3d alloys. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak electronegativity have a minor effect, while strong ones like oxygen significantly alter surface configurations at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions promote surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, as shown in [1] and [2]. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt [4], is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation [16], whereas oxygen adsorption can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding [6]. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces [8]. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, depending on gas redox potential [20], significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance. Fe-Pt structures with Fe in subsurface regions show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys having 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly impacts catalytic activities, notably enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces, formed by Pt segregation, exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR rate. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption, common in catalytic reactions, is crucial for understanding and optimizing the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that surface segregation of Pd and Pt occurs, with original composition restored after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating complete segregation. A slight Pt loss happens during re-alloying. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, including deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "DFT studies show that oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co systems. Notably, Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's surface layers significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, while CO adsorption promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion for CO binding. O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial for CO oxidation, explaining its absence on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. Experimental verification on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirms these predictions, revealing activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, verified by DFT and experiments, use Δεd to screen alloys. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Oxygen binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. AES results show two segregation regions, bridging the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing towards the core. Pd's preference for (100) facets over (111) facets impacts catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Pt-3d alloys like PtFe form a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This protective layer, triggered by Fe dissolution, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic performance in fuel cell applications. The steady CV resulting from potential cycles indicates increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, leading to the formation of the protective Pt layer. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, further elucidating its role in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, illustrating the impact of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt's slow kinetics for the ORR in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys for improved activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms, is pivotal, with Au showing strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation to the surface is thermodynamically favorable, contrasting with Co's tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the enhanced stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based catalysts. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in many Pt alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which alter electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate, while the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing alters the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming morphology and significantly affecting adsorption properties, which in turn impacts catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation highlight the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts, even for active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, indicating that reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structural dynamics and stability, impacting its catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) uniquely bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, particularly hydrogen, by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer an exception by allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni, illustrating how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms more resistant to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable and active alloy at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a critical role in facilitating the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated conditions, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity, critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties due to complex surface structures. Pt-skin surfaces show superior performance in reactions compared to pure Pt. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d alloy catalysts, 3d TMs migrate to subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic-dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, influenced by surface segregation favoring metals with larger atomic radii. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces in oxidative environments. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions significantly impact real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation, affecting catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt, as evidenced by Pt3Co alloys showing four times higher ORR activity with a Pt-skin surface. Reaction conditions and adsorbates influence surface composition, critical for catalytic properties. Studying segregation trends under operating environments is essential for optimizing Pt-based alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "STM and AES studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Surface energies, decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), and size mismatch favor the inclusion of Pt and Pd in the outermost Ru layer, driving surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, impact the floating behavior and probability of subsurface dissolution, which can be estimated using a Boltzmann approach. The distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to differences in Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the bridge site on Pt-based alloy surfaces, affecting segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co. Notably, Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, influenced by the arrangement of the first 23 layers, is critical for catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of characterizing atomic distribution in Pt alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    