Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Oxygen binding energy differences for Pt3d systems are significant, affecting catalytic performance. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates, showing two segregation regions. Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. Linear trends show d-band center correlation beyond Pt3d alloys, with preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the surface, favoring (100) facets, which enhances Pt concentration at the core. These dynamics directly impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with a (111)-oriented facet, develops due to increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement at the surface, shielding the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This protective mechanism enhances the alloy's catalytic properties and performance in fuel cell applications, as evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak after potential cycles. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity 25-fold at 50% Fe content, crucial for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for stability and catalytic properties. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation enhances catalytic activity, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with ORR rates four times higher than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, with stability enhancement linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) surfaces into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This affects catalytic activity and selectivity. Stepwise annealing of submonolayer Pt-covered Ru(0001) surfaces to form PtxRu1-x/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveals that surface structure and composition influence adsorption properties, particularly for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition underscores the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, alters properties like permeation and dramatically impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the investigation of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For example, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation, influencing the catalytic performance of bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) forms 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20, which alloy extensively at elevated temperatures, starting at the perimeter by AgPt exchange. This results in a nanophasic AgPt alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions profoundly affect the performance of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), particularly in Pt-based systems, exhibit exceptional hydrogen binding properties, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. These NSAs bind atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and the effects of hydrogen adsorption. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be reliably estimated by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the difference in hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and host. This reveals that hydrogen generally does not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs at low temperatures and pressures. NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and potentially easier hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Surface segregation is governed by relative surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with promoting metals increases surface concentration, while suppressors prevent Pt from reaching the surface, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for achieving both high activity and stability. Among various Pt2M alloys, molybdenum (Mo) stands out as it forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with the OOH dissociation barrier as a key parameter for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimal Mo content of 30%.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer, as confirmed by DFT calculations. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at elevated CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure, suggesting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes affect subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, influencing oxygen-induced segregation. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen, impacting ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Their complex surface structures, with the second metal in various states, are pivotal for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure changes dynamically during reactions, influenced by redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) reside in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This impacts catalytic activity, as Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, illustrating the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation, while hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. These findings are crucial for understanding real catalytic processes involving Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, with Pt-skin structures demonstrating high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe exhibit higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly boosts catalytic activities, as evidenced by enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has sparked extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can alter surface segregation trends and composition. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is crucial for understanding their catalytic properties, as adsorbates can influence surface segregation and composition, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES found that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) showed complete segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys, inducing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. These phenomena significantly impact catalytic activity, as the arrangement of atoms in the surface layers is crucial. Understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects is essential for optimizing catalytic alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic factors and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalysts' stability and performance, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions (Quote 1) favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature (Quote 2) promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to the surface to bind CO (Quote 3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial (Quotes 6-8), explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These insights impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt lowest, to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends, predicted from DFT and verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Δεd screens alloys for stability in various environments. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures with optimal binding properties may halt reactions on surface structures. Trends predict subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregation to the outer layers and a Pt concentration gradient towards the bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create a protective layer enhancing corrosion resistance. This has significant implications for fuel cell applications, with ongoing studies exploring the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, impacting the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, significantly boosts stability and catalytic efficiency. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation is crucial for understanding Pt-based alloys, with modern techniques identifying segregation trends and characterizing surface and subsurface components. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. 3d metals in Pt(111) enhance the stability of Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, improving oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The protective role of 3d subsurface atoms facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. This transformation, observable by STM, changes adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, affecting CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition underscores the critical role of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partly replaced by cheaper metals. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure, not geometry, as the primary factor for enhanced ORR activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K leads to the creation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, addressing the question on thermodynamic stability and catalytic implications under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing new NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed using a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, influenced by the doped element, determine the extent of Pt segregation. Stronger Pt segregation occurs with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent Pt surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions significantly influences alloy stability, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Molybdenum (Mo) is identified as a stabilizing element for Pt alloys at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo having a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT predictions show this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, crucial for catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are pivotal for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallics, featuring Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals subsurface, exhibit superior catalytic activity. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structures' stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is guided by segregation energy (Eseg), determining admetal surface segregation or subsurface retention. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, influencing stability and catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is driven by strain release. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding, while hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the segregation process. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys exhibiting 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly boosts catalytic activities, exemplified by enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. Reaction conditions and adsorbates can alter surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit four times higher ORR activity than pure Pt, underscoring the significance of studying surface segregation trends under adsorbates for understanding catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, except for a slight Pt loss. The stability variance is attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) substrate favors surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying, suggests a probability for subsurface dissolution of Pt (Pd) estimated by a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, causing segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core). Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement significantly affects catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties, particularly in Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at high Au compositions (>17%) lead to Au's surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in surfacing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These insights highlight the catalytic performance of bimetallic systems in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to surface structures. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in various conditions. Oxygen binding energy differences suggest optimal binding properties may halt or prevent reactions. DFT and experiments show subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. AES results verify segregation and quantify activation barriers, revealing two segregation regions. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher in Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like PtPd alloys. Simulations show Pd segregates to the surface, favoring (100) facets, while Pt concentration increases towards the core, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions in 0.1 M HClO4 solution, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, enhances the alloy's stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. The Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, is a focus of ongoing research.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, affecting the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells is improved by Pt-based alloys, which exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation. This process leads to a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, enhancing stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co is unlikely to continuously segregate in PtCo alloys, as it is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation is crucial for Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR activity is four times higher on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. The exothermic process of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process of Co segregation, illustrating the differential effects of surface segregation on Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly enhance surface adsorption properties and the stability of Pt-skin surfaces under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and catalytic performance in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. This transformation impacts deuterium, CO adsorption, and demonstrates sensitivity of catalytic properties to local structure and composition, affecting activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, governed by theoretical approaches, temperature, and the presence of adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces forms elongated 2D-adislands, which alloy extensively upon annealing above 600 K, creating a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions influence structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit superior electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, akin to noble metals, yet they dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability can be assessed using a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to attract alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, suggesting practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may soon be possible.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, influenced by doped elements through surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, stability is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a critical role in ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloy is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, Cu segregates to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. Adsorbate-induced changes in local atomic composition and surface structure alter catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt NSA's instability at high CO pressures leads to the formation of a SA structure. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, where the stable CO-induced surface alloy forms and breaks up. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes significantly influence subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting ORR activity. DFT calculations predict oxygen's impact on stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), revealing crystal plane effects on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Complex surface structures, featuring the second metal in various states, enhance catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based catalysts outperform pure Pt in reactions. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation governed by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs segregate to subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic impacts catalytic properties, as Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. H2 presence doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, while O2 adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are fully reversible, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts display high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation, affecting catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires precise control of surface structural configurations and understanding their stability at elevated temperatures and under various reaction atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, linked to enhanced catalytic performance, has sparked extensive research. Studies often probe surface and subsurface structures under vacuum, but the presence of adsorbates in catalytic reactions like the ORR can alter surface segregation and composition. Understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is crucial for optimizing catalytic properties and performance, as catalytic activities are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by surface composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to lower Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding variations.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, as per quote 1. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as stated in quote 2. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable, as in quote 3. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces, as per quote 8: 'CO oxidation does not occur at initially pure Au clusters, due to the requirement of neighboring Pt sites for O2 dissociation.' These factors directly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregating under oxygen adsorption. DFT calculations predict higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures compared to surface configurations, with PtNiPt being the most resistant and PtTiPt the most susceptible. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and polycrystalline Pt, revealing trends in stability under various conditions. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments, with Sabatier's principle suggesting optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in (100) structures compared to (111) configurations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, highlighting the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, leading to research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces due to its tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation boosts catalytic efficiency, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces is four times higher than on pure Pt. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects in the rearrangement process. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is well interpreted by a kinetic model, demonstrating the exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt under various conditions. This stability boost, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, including a higher oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate. A positive potential shift indicates delayed Pt atom dissolution, enhancing stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from Pt islands to alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This impacts adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic effects on probe molecule adsorption highlight sensitivity to local structure and composition, influencing surface catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a prime catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the leading electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by cheaper metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role in this enhancement. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys increase ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, not geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K leads to the creation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions influence catalyst stability and structure, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, especially in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit weak atomic hydrogen binding, similar to noble metals, yet efficiently dissociate H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is vital for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory, predicting catalytic behavior. Selected NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, suitable for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Advanced nanofabrication techniques may soon enable precise control of metal catalyst surface structure, crucial for maximizing NSA catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping influences Pt surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, with transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promoting segregation and Ag, Au, Pd suppressing it. This impacts the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms exposed at the surface vacancy can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds, with O atoms preferentially bonding with solute M atoms at the second layer. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Under electrochemical conditions, alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same O coverage, with zero O coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being crucial for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element, with Pt2Mo showing lower kinetic barriers for oxygen reduction and a key role for OOH dissociation in OR activity. The stability hierarchy follows Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo exhibiting higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The CuPt near-surface alloy is a promising water-gas shift catalyst due to reduced PtCO bonding, but it becomes unstable at high CO pressures and temperatures, forming a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy instead. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane orientation impacts the thermodynamics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), influencing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, highlighting structural dynamics' role in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit superior catalytic properties due to complex surface structures where the second metal can be present in various states. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys outperform pure Pt in reactions. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size (Quote 1). Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands (Quote 2). This structural dynamics affects catalytic properties; Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity (Quote 3), highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts for applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence these trends and surface composition, directly impacting catalytic properties. This research is essential for understanding and optimizing the performance of Pt-based catalysts in various applications, as demonstrated by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that re-alloying nearly restores original composition, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may stem from lower Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) favors surface segregation. Preparation steps reveal the probability of Pt/Pd dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Segregation notably influences catalytic activity, especially in surface layers, underlining the significance of surface atomic distribution for optimal catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility with Pt at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors critically affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are demonstrated through DFT and experiments, Δεd screens alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers, empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. AES results suggest two segregation regions, revealing DFT and experiments' applicability to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. Linear trends show correlation of thermodynamic stability with d-band center difference. Switching admetal/host shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration from surfaces to the core in PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, PtFe alloys form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, creating a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion, crucial for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research on CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer further explores its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not changes in Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, addressing the question on how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, especially the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface migration, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to kinetic barriers. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for ORR, quadrupling reaction rates compared to pure Pt. The exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co, which is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive, highlight the role of metal dissolution and rearrangement in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. 3d metals improve surface adsorption properties, enhancing Pt-skin surface stability over pure Pt, especially under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability boost, due to 3d subsurface atoms, improves catalytic properties, such as increased ORR rate and electrochemical stability. A Pt-skin layer facilitates adsorbate removal, further enhancing the ORR rate, and a positive potential shift delays Pt atom dissolution, indicating enhanced stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble effects and electronic interactions. This impacts catalytic activity and selectivity, highlighting the role of surface dynamics in Pt-based alloys for catalytic applications, as observed by STM with sensitivity to local structure for probe molecules like CO and deuterium.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, profoundly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to find alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Notably, enhanced ORR activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface electronic structure and bond length. Theoretical approaches and factors like temperature and the presence of adsorbates govern surface segregation, influencing the catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like temperature, influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, impacting catalytic properties in Pt-based alloys. For instance, Ag on Pt(1 0 0) forms elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature, alloying with Pt above 600 K, spreading across the surface with sufficient Ag. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the role of thermodynamic preferences in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, critical for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, predicted by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, emphasizing the need for precise control of metal catalyst surface structure for optimal catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution determine the degree of Pt segregation. Replacing Ni with promoting metals enhances Pt segregation, while suppressing metals prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, with zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable alloy at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, and the barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys counterintuitively pulls Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm this, showing increased CO binding energy compensates for the endothermic Cu diffusion. The CuPt near-surface alloy's potential as a water-gas shift catalyst, due to reduced PtCO bonding, is highlighted. These findings suggest new possibilities for engineering alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, notably Pt-3d alloys, is governed by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT predictions for Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen reveal implications for catalytic properties, specifically ORR activity, which is crystal plane-dependent.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their intricate surface structures, surpass monometallic catalysts in catalytic efficiency. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys demonstrate exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structures undergo dynamic changes during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under fluctuating redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. The segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, and this effect is predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3], underscoring the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments (Quote 2). Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt for strain release (Quote 4), is common. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding (Quote 6). Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces (Quote 8). Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential (Quote 20), are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability can decrease under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) impact catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Preparation methods and reaction conditions determine Fe's presence as a topmost surface or subsurface layer. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, is crucial for catalytic activities, significantly influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical as adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Enhanced ORR activities on Pt-skin surfaces of Pt3Co alloys, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt, demonstrate the importance of surface segregation. Research under operating environments with adsorbates is essential for understanding the performance of bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES found significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability is influenced by Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd over Ru. Size mismatch between guest (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) metals enhances segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, influenced by these phenomena, critically impacts catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic factors and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature boosts Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites, explaining its absence on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to low Pt site ensemble probability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using Δεd, correlating with thermodynamic stability and kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) preference in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. AES confirms segregation behavior, showing DFT predictions apply to polycrystalline substrates. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends in stability extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases from surfaces to the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtFe alloys, exhibit enhanced stability and catalytic properties. In situ electrochemical STM studies in 0.1 M HClO4 solution reveal that Fe dissolution leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and form a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This protective layer improves the alloy's catalytic performance in fuel cells. Ongoing research is exploring the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for understanding catalytic implications under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation affects catalytic properties, as Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Studies using experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface segregation in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, notably in Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) enhances surface adsorption properties and stability, particularly in Pt-skin surfaces, compared to pure Pt, under clean and oxygen adsorption conditions. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength and catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from Pt islands to surface alloys, impacting adsorption properties and ensemble composition. This affects electronic interactions, influencing catalytic activity and selectivity. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) reveals the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, crucial for understanding chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, dramatically alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. Notably, enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the main factor for enhanced ORR activities in Pt-skin surfaces. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, reaction conditions notably temperature, influence stability, surface segregation, and structure, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 adislands form, transforming into nanophasic alloys upon annealing above 600K, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Higher temperatures enable Ag mixing with bulk Pt, altering the catalyst's structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them pivotal in hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in the development of NSAs for these applications. Select NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, advantageous for chiral pharmaceutical production and potentially facilitating easier hydrogen separation and storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by strongly binding to alloy components. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from idealized NSA models quantitatively affect properties but do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is essential for optimal catalytic properties, suggesting advanced nanofabrication techniques could be pivotal.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, while suppressing metals like Ag, Au, and Pd reduce Pt surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero O coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability, as alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same O coverage. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo having a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance. Low Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, supporting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal plane effects on subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, as predicted by DFT calculations under oxygen, significantly impact ORR activity, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, especially those with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic properties compared to monometallic catalysts. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, offering enhanced performance in various reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) upon annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d transition metals under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) reside in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, underscoring the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is a common phenomenon. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to the encapsulation of Pt surfaces with oxides. These reversible mass transport processes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt in such reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, affecting the alloys' performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is restored with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface, except for minor Pt loss. Surface alloy stability is influenced by Pd content, with Pt showing higher stability. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd over Ru. Preparation steps including Pt/Pd deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying confirm these tendencies. Lower Pd content and size mismatch contribute to distinct growth patterns, affecting surface structure and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure critically influences catalytic activity, underlining the significance of characterizing atomic distribution in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with hydrogen, while oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt lowest, to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd and empirical equations quantify stability trends, correlating DFT with experimental kinetic barriers. Surface and subsurface configurations have distinct binding properties, impacting catalytic reactions based on Sabatier's principle. Predictions extend to other bimetallic systems and complex adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregates to the surface of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing towards the core. Pd prefers (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, protects the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research is exploring the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, specifically in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, achieving 25 times higher activity than pure Pt. This enhancement, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells, is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d systems, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity in PEM fuel cells, addressing Pt's sluggish kinetics. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the alloy surface, significantly boosts stability. Au demonstrates strong segregation in PtAu alloys, a thermodynamically favorable process, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, which migrates to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process is crucial for Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by a four-fold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of metal atom dissolution and rearrangement in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals enhance Pt-skin surface stability, affecting oxygen adsorption strength and catalytic properties. This enhancement, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with oxygen adsorption strength, improving the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates adsorbate removal, further increasing the ORR rate, and stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) catalysts from Pt islands to surface alloys, impacting adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects. Changes in surface structure and composition affect catalytic activity and selectivity, as demonstrated by STM, showing sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by less expensive metals. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, specifically Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0). Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that conditions profoundly affect catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Stability is assessed in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by attracting alloy components they bind strongly. Hydrogen-induced segregation is reliably predicted by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs demonstrate high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for pharmaceuticals and hydrogen separation. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The surface energy, strain, and heat of solution from the doped element M collectively determine Pt surface segregation energy. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, while substituting with Ag, Au, and Pd prevents it, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, emphasizing the need for zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for optimal performance. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which hinders surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, allowing stronger bonding with O atoms. Second layer atoms exposed at surface vacancies enable stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Ti skin alloys show that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as an element that can alloy with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo exhibits a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. Only Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt, rationalizing the observed Cu surface segregation. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly impact the stability of subsurface 3d metals, influencing surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict this stability and its effect on ORR activity, highlighting crystal plane influence on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with complex surface structures, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals show enhanced activity. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes under varying redox conditions, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalyst stability, segregation, and structure, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, emphasizing the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt to release strain, is common. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation, whereas hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by the redox potential of the reaction gases. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated by the dynamic behavior of Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, is crucial for catalytic activities, significantly influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Pt alloys with 3d metals show enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation. Notably, Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit ORR rates four times higher than pure Pt, demonstrating the impact of surface segregation on activity improvement. Studying surface segregation under various adsorbates is essential, as adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties and performance in applications like the ORR.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys via STM and AES show strong surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with near-complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying. Pt exhibits slight loss during re-alloying. Stability varies with lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances segregation. Observed floating behavior includes distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen preferentially adsorbs at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, causing segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, critically impacts catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface presence. CO adsorption at room temperature on PtAu clusters promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces lacking neighboring Pt sites, as demonstrated by the lack of reaction on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These dynamics have direct implications for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    