Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations. These findings highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments, affecting catalytic performance. DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates, showing two segregation regions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results highlight Pd's tendency to segregate to the surface, favoring (100) facets, which increases Pt concentration at the core. This dynamic directly influences catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as evidenced by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with a (111)-oriented facet, develops due to increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement at the surface, shielding the PtFe alloy from corrosion. The disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak after potential cycles indicates the protective mechanism's effectiveness. This enhances the alloy's catalytic properties and performance in fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe at 50% Fe content boosts electrocatalytic activity 25-fold, vital for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughness.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for stability and catalytic properties. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation enhances catalytic activity, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with ORR rates four times higher than pure Pt, as noted by Stamenkovic et al.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability, due to 3d subsurface atoms, improves adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting the ORR rate. Stability enhancement is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) surfaces into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This transformation affects catalytic activity and selectivity, with probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition underscoring the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts, particularly for CO and D adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, alters properties and dramatically impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the investigation of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For example, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation, influencing the catalytic performance of bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag forms 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) as Ag80Pt20, which alloy at higher temperatures, starting with perimeter AgPt exchange. This leads to a nanophasic AgPt alloy spreading across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the profound effect of reaction conditions on bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. These Pt-skin surfaces show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as evidenced by their enhanced activity and stability compared to bimetallic alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), notably in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and the effects of hydrogen adsorption. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be reliably estimated by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the difference in hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and host. This reveals that hydrogen generally does not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs at low temperatures and pressures. NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and potentially easier hydrogen separation and storage. Deviations from ideal NSA structures do not substantially affect adsorbate behavior trends but have a quantitative effect on adsorbate properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Transition metals enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface segregation is influenced by relative surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Promoters increase surface Pt concentration, while suppressors hinder its surface reach, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for achieving both high activity and stability. Among various Pt2M alloys, molybdenum (Mo) stands out as it forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with the OOH dissociation barrier as a key parameter for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimal Mo content of 30%.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer, as confirmed by DFT calculations. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal plane orientation impacts subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting oxygen-induced segregation. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen, crucial for ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane, emphasizing the role of thermodynamics and reaction conditions in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, with complex surface structures including subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit enhanced stability and catalytic performance. Surface dynamics, influenced by redox potential, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, crucial for various applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, indicating subsurface stability. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, showing a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) reside in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This impacts catalytic activity, as Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation, while hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. These findings are crucial for understanding real catalytic processes involving Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 [1], and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2]. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4]. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly enhances catalytic activities, particularly in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely linked to unusual catalytic activity, has attracted extensive research. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is crucial, as adsorbates can alter surface segregation trends and composition, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed complete surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt in PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen preferentially adsorbs at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys, inducing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. These phenomena significantly impact catalytic activity, as the arrangement of atoms in the surface layers is crucial. Understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects is essential for optimizing catalytic alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and performance, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt (Quote 1) favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (Quote 2). Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to the surface to bind CO (Quote 3). For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation (Quotes 6-8), explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These insights are pivotal for understanding catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt lowest, to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends, predicted from DFT and verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Δεd screens alloys for stability in various environments. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures with optimal binding properties may halt reactions on surface structures. Trends predict subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the surface and a Pt concentration gradient towards the core in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. This structure impacts catalytic properties, as Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets, influencing performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create a protective layer enhancing corrosion resistance. This has significant implications for fuel cell applications, with ongoing studies exploring the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, as indicated by the small peak at 0.71 V, which shows the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process and its subsequent disappearance, leading to a steady CV and the formation of a Pt skin layer.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to surface 5d-vacancy, not interatomic distance or roughening, impacts the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, significantly boosts stability and catalytic efficiency. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation is crucial for understanding Pt-based alloys, with modern techniques identifying segregation trends and characterizing surface and subsurface components. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "3d metals in Pt(111) surfaces enhance stability and catalytic performance of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. They improve oxygen reduction reaction rates and electrochemical stability, with subsurface 3d atoms facilitating the removal of adsorbed species, boosting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms them from Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. This transformation, observable by STM, changes adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, affecting CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the critical role of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partly replaced by cheaper metals. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure, not geometry, as the primary factor for enhanced ORR activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into a nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K, spreading across the surface with sufficient Ag to achieve uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, directly affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit weak hydrogen binding akin to noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, which are pivotal in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with some NSAs uniquely allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, suitable for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, influenced by the doped element.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which hinders surface Pt atoms from segregating or dissolving. Oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions significantly impacts alloy stability, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Molybdenum (Mo) is identified as a stabilizing element for Pt alloys at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo having a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems is governed by crystal planes, impacting subsurface metal stability. DFT predictions reveal this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, critical for catalytic properties, especially ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are fundamental for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals subsurface, exhibit enhanced catalytic activity over monometallics due to complex surface structures. Surface dynamics, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, crucial for optimizing performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, highlighting Pt's surface preference. Surface composition is guided by segregation energy (Eseg), affecting admetal surface segregation or subsurface retention. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Reductive conditions push 3d TMs to subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1], while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity [3], underscoring the structure-environment-activity interplay [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, impacting stability and catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring Pt due to its larger atomic radius, is driven by strain release. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding, while hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the segregation process. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys exhibiting 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly boosts catalytic activities, exemplified by enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. Reaction conditions and adsorbates can alter surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit four times higher ORR activity than pure Pt, underscoring the significance of studying surface segregation trends under adsorbates for understanding catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, except for a slight Pt loss. The stability variance is attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) substrate favors surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying, suggests a probability for subsurface dissolution of Pt (Pd) estimated by a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at high Au compositions (>17%) ensure its surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature facilitates Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in surfacing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These insights underscore the catalytic performance of bimetallic systems in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to surface structures. Experimental results confirm higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures, with PtNiPt showing highest resistance and PtTiPt being most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in various conditions. Oxygen binding energy differences suggest optimal binding properties may halt or prevent reactions. DFT and experiments show subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. AES results verify segregation and quantify activation barriers, revealing two segregation regions. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher in Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in PtPd alloys. Pd segregates to the surface, favoring (100) facets, while Pt concentration increases towards the core, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions in 0.1 M HClO4 solution, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, enhances the alloy's stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications, as evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak and the steady CV. Ongoing research focuses on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, which significantly affects the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys enhance the sluggish kinetics of Pt for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells, with surface segregation playing a key role. Pt-skin formation on alloy surfaces improves stability. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co segregation in PtCo alloys is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. observed that ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces is four times higher than on pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface segregation. The exothermic Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic Co segregation, illustrating differential effects on Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-3d alloy catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption and Pt-skin stability under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. This improves adsorbate binding and catalytic performance, with surface segregation facilitating the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate. The stability enhancement delays Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and catalytic performance in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. This impacts deuterium and CO adsorption, highlighting sensitivity of catalytic properties to local structure and composition, affecting activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly influences physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, especially in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, governed by theoretical approaches, temperature, and the presence of adsorbates. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force and tendency of surface segregation, which is also governed by temperature and the presence of adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces at room temperature, which alloy extensively upon annealing above room temperature, creating a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions influence structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces show superior electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, which are critical for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves analyzing vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to attract alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir boosts Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd reduce it. Segregation is governed by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, influenced by doped elements through surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, stability is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a critical role in ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloy is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, Cu segregates to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. Adsorbate-induced changes in local atomic composition and surface structure alter catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt NSA's instability at high CO pressures leads to the formation of a SA structure. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes in Pt-based catalysts significantly affect subsurface 3d metal stability and ORR activity. Oxygen's impact on stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) crystal planes, as predicted by DFT calculations, reveals how crystal structure influences catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. The presence of the second metal in various states on the surface or subsurface enhances catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based catalysts exhibit superior catalytic performance compared to pure Pt. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by the redox potential of reaction gases, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Hydrogen-induced segregation is governed by segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces, as evidenced by studies showing subsurface PtNiPt(111) structures being more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) structures in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces being preferred in fuel cell applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs dynamically segregate: subsurface under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and size, and surface under oxidizing conditions, forming oxidized islands. This impacts catalytic properties, notably CO oxidation activity on Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. H2 presence doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, while O2 adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. These reversible structure changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of high-performance, low-cost catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts enhances oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, surpassing pure Pt. Adsorbates in catalytic reactions like the ORR can alter surface segregation and composition, affecting catalytic activities determined by surface geometry and electronic structure. Studying Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is crucial for optimizing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to lower Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding variations.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure critically affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt (quote 1) favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (quote 2). Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable (quote 3). For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are essential for O2 dissociation, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces (quote 8). These factors directly influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT calculations predict Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate under oxygen adsorption, with PtNiPt showing highest resistance and PtTiPt being most susceptible. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions, revealing stability trends under various conditions. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments, with Sabatier's principle suggesting optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements show higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in (100) structures compared to (111) configurations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results demonstrate Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, which has a substantial impact on catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. The steady CV resulting from potential cycles indicates increased Fe dissolution and Pt skin layer formation. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, underscores the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces due to its tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation boosts catalytic efficiency, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces is four times higher than on pure Pt. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects in the rearrangement process. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is well interpreted by a kinetic model, demonstrating the exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-3d alloy catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt. This boosts catalytic properties, like a higher ORR rate and electrochemical stability, by facilitating the removal of adsorbed species. A positive potential shift delays Pt atom dissolution, enhancing stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms them from Pt islands to alloys, significantly changing adsorption properties. This impacts catalytic activity and selectivity due to sensitivity to local structure and composition, highlighting the influence of surface dynamics on Pt-based alloy systems' catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a prime catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the leading electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by cheaper metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role in this enhancement, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s observation that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys increase ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, not geometric effects, and are governed by theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into a nanophasic AgPt alloy with annealing above 600 K, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in impacting catalyst stability and structure, thus affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet efficiently dissociate H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, which are crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory, predicting catalytic behavior. NSA stability is assessed in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. These insights offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, suitable for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, doping with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, enhancing stability and catalytic properties under varying conditions. Conversely, Ag, Au, Pd suppress segregation. This dynamic significantly influences the performance of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (1). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface (2). Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding (6). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element, with Pt2Mo showing lower kinetic barriers for oxygen reduction and a key role for OOH dissociation in OR activity (9, 10). Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero O coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability (8). Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V) (14). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The CuPt near-surface alloy is a promising water-gas shift catalyst due to reduced PtCO bonding, but it becomes unstable at high CO pressures and temperatures, forming a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy instead. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane orientation influences oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, impacting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability, affecting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, highlighting structural dynamics' role in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties due to complex surface structures where the second metal can be present in various states. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys outperform pure Pt in reactions. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, as observed in reversible wetting-dewetting and sintering-dispersion processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces in Pt3d alloys. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, segregation, and structure of Pt-3d alloy catalysts. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, influencing catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. Adsorbates significantly impact segregation trends and surface composition, directly affecting catalytic properties. Studying these trends under surface adsorption is crucial for optimizing Pt-based catalysts, as demonstrated by a fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, nearly restoring original composition post re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability varies with lower Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed segregation trends. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps reveal the probability of Pt/Pd dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen. Segregation significantly impacts catalytic activity, especially in surface layers, highlighting the importance of surface atomic distribution for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. Contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation in CO oxidation, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom surface segregation, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, demonstrated through DFT and experiments, predict subsurface configurations in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen. Δεd screens alloys for stability, correlating thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends show correlation of thermodynamic stability with d-band center difference. General stability trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration from surfaces to the core in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms' preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell influences catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, PtFe alloys develop a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, creating a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion, crucial for fuel cell applications. This layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation, is a focus of ongoing research.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, addressing how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, especially the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface migration, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to kinetic barriers. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for ORR, quadrupling reaction rates compared to pure Pt. The exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co, which is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive, highlight the role of metal dissolution and rearrangement in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption and Pt-skin stability over pure Pt, particularly under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability boost, due to 3d subsurface atoms, improves catalytic properties, such as increased ORR rate and electrochemical stability. A Pt-skin layer facilitates adsorbate removal, further enhancing the ORR rate, and a positive potential shift delays Pt atom dissolution, indicating enhanced stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble effects and electronic interactions, which significantly impacts catalytic activity and selectivity. This highlights the role of surface dynamics in Pt-based alloys for catalytic applications, as observed by STM with sensitivity to local structure for probe molecules like CO and deuterium.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, profoundly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to find alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Notably, enhanced ORR activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface electronic structure and bond length. Theoretical approaches and factors like temperature and the presence of adsorbates govern surface segregation, influencing the catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based alloys, affecting their catalytic properties. For example, Ag on Pt(1 0 0) forms elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature, alloying with Pt at higher temperatures, and spreading across the surface with sufficient Ag. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, underscoring the importance of thermodynamic preferences in determining catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique properties in hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation, critical for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability assessment involves evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, predicted by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, emphasizing the need for precise control of metal catalyst surface structure for optimal catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution determine the degree of Pt segregation. Replacing Ni with promoting metals enhances Pt segregation, while suppressing metals prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, with zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being crucial for high activity and stability. The stabilization of the Pt d-band in clean alloy surfaces makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable alloy at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, and the barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys counterintuitively pulls Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm this, showing increased CO binding energy compensates for the endothermic Cu diffusion. The CuPt near-surface alloy's potential as a water-gas shift catalyst, due to reduced PtCO bonding, is highlighted. These findings suggest new possibilities for engineering alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, notably influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability. DFT predictions for Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen reveal crystal plane-dependent implications for catalytic properties, specifically affecting ORR activity.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic catalysts. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, and this effect is predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs segregate to subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size, and to the surface under oxidizing conditions, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments (Quote 2). Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt for strain release (Quote 4), is common. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding (Quote 6). Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces (Quote 8). These dynamics are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals a structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) impact catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly impacts catalytic activities, with enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) observed in Pt alloys compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates under operating conditions can alter segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys demonstrate four times higher ORR activity than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface segregation. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys post Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability is influenced by Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences favoring Pt and Pd over Ru, and size mismatch between guest (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) metals enhances segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir uniquely shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, shaped by these phenomena, significantly affects catalytic activity in the initial layers of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's diffusion to bind CO. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites, explaining its absence on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to low Pt site ensemble probability, as O2 dissociation necessitates neighboring Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd correlates with thermodynamic stability and kinetic barriers, predicting stability trends in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight stability's importance in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures' optimal binding properties may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) preference in vacuum and hydrogen, surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. AES confirms segregation behavior, showing DFT predictions apply to polycrystalline substrates. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear stability trends extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Simulation reveals Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases from surfaces to the core, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, PtFe bimetallic catalysts form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, enhancing stability and catalytic properties. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion, improving catalytic performance in fuel cells. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is critical for understanding catalytic implications under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation affects catalytic properties, as Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Studies using experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface segregation in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) surfaces enhances adsorption properties and stability, especially in Pt-skin surfaces, by protecting against Pt atom dissolution. This stability is linked to the strength of oxygen adsorption, which is modified by the presence of 3d metals, improving adsorbate binding and catalytic properties. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting reaction rates, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is attributed to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms them from Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and ensemble composition. This transformation impacts electronic interactions, crucial for catalytic activity and selectivity. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) highlights the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, essential for understanding the behavior of chemically active metals like Ru and Pt in catalytic contexts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation, which is crucial for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, temperature significantly impacts stability, surface segregation, and structure, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 adislands form, which transform into nanophasic alloys upon annealing above 600K, achieving uniform stoichiometry, demonstrating temperature's role in altering catalyst structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding and dissociation properties, akin to noble metals, making them crucial in hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes [1][2]. Stability is evaluated in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects [25]. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by strongly binding to alloy components [4]. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be reliably estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences [5]. Select NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, advantageous for chiral pharmaceutical production and potentially facilitating easier hydrogen separation and storage [24]. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is essential for optimal catalytic properties [16].", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Pt segregation is influenced by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, while suppressing metals like Ag, Au, and Pd reduce it, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero O coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability, as alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same O coverage. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo having a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, supporting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "DFT calculations reveal that crystal plane effects significantly influence subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts under oxygen, directly impacting ORR activity, a critical factor in bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, outperform monometallic catalysts due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Their stability, surface segregation, and structure are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Surface dynamics, responsive to redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, optimizing performance in various reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) upon annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Hydrogen influences segregation based on binding energies, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) reside in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to Pt surface encapsulation with oxides. These reversible mass transport processes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show increased activity in oxygen reduction reactions compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is crucial for catalysis, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. For instance, the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface of Pt3Co, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, affecting the alloys' performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is restored with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface, except for minor Pt loss. Surface alloy stability is influenced by Pd content, with Pt showing higher stability. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd over Ru. Lower Pd content and size mismatch contribute to distinct growth patterns, affecting surface structure and stability. These findings are confirmed by scanning tunneling microscopy and Auger electron spectroscopy, showing complete segregation of buried Pd (Pt) to the surface layer and slight Pt loss during re-alloying. The surface energies of Ru, Pt, and Pd, in decreasing order, align with the observed segregation tendency. Size mismatch between guest and host metals provides additional driving force for surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure critically influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of characterizing atomic distribution in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles forming.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, as verified experimentally. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance, while PtTiPt is the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd and empirical equations quantify stability trends, correlating DFT with experimental kinetic barriers. Surface and subsurface configurations have distinct binding properties, impacting catalytic reactions based on Sabatier's principle. Predictions extend to other bimetallic systems and complex adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the surface of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing towards the core. Pd prefers (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, protects the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research is exploring the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, specifically in CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding new insight into electrode material study for fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, achieving 25 times higher activity than pure Pt, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells. The enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d systems, significantly enhance oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity in PEM fuel cells, addressing Pt's sluggish kinetics. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the alloy surface, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic efficiency. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, a thermodynamically favorable process, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, which tends to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process is pivotal for Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by a four-fold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of metal atom dissolution and rearrangement in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance Pt-skin surface stability, correlating with stronger oxygen adsorption and improved ORR rate. The Pt-skin layer facilitates adsorbate removal, further boosting the ORR rate. Stability enhancement is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) catalysts from Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic effects. Surface structure and composition changes impact catalytic activity and selectivity, as STM reveals probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches and factors like temperature and the presence of adsorbates govern surface segregation, impacting the catalytic properties of bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0), but annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry. AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the profound effect of conditions on catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is evaluated in two stages: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by attracting strongly bound alloy components. Hydrogen-induced segregation is reliably predicted by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs exhibit high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, advantageous for pharmaceuticals and hydrogen separation. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, impacting catalytic properties, while substituting with Ag, Au, and Pd prevents it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys like Pt-3d exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the need for zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for optimal performance. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which hinders surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote 2). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9). Pt2Mo exhibits a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity (Quote 10). Only Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V) (Quote 14). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 19, 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt, rationalizing the observed Cu surface segregation. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly affect the stability of subsurface 3d metals, influencing surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict oxygen-induced segregation stability and its impact on ORR activity, underscoring the crystal plane's role in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with complex surface structures, outperform monometallics. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic activity. Surface structures dynamically adapt during reactions, akin to reversible processes under changing redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating subsurface PtNiPt structures are preferred. Pt-terminated surfaces are also favored in Pt3d alloys, as evidenced in fuel cell applications. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies; if Eseg is negative, admetals segregate to the surface, forming MHH structures. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, segregation, and structure in Pt-based alloys. Reductive conditions favor 3d TM subsurface placement due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, influenced by the larger atomic radius of Pt. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation, whereas hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, active in oxidation or reduction reactions, are influenced by the redox potential of the reaction gases, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly boosts catalytic activities, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, with Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys showing ORR rates four times higher, underscoring the impact of surface segregation. Studying surface segregation under various adsorbates is critical, as adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties and performance in applications like the ORR.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal strong surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with near-complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying. Pt shows slight loss during re-alloying. Stability varies with lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances segregation. Observed floating behavior includes distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, significantly affects catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic factors and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface presence. CO adsorption at room temperature on PtAu clusters promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces, as density functional theory confirms. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces lacking neighboring Pt sites. These dynamics directly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    