Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic performance, varying under different conditions. DFT predictions, supported by experiments, reveal stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen triggers 3d atom segregation to the surface. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher for Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). The stability trend, confirmed on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, suggests subsurface configurations are favored in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are preferred with oxygen. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Sabatier's principle indicates that optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates in the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, like PtFe alloys, exhibit enhanced stability and catalytic properties. The dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys triggers the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the underlying alloy from corrosion, significantly improving its performance in fuel cell applications. Ongoing research is exploring the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, explained by the 5d-vacancy on the surface, highlights the role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, and their catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity, critical for PEM fuel cells. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the outer layer, significantly impacts stability and catalytic efficiency. Au demonstrates strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, whereas Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic process in PtAu contrasts with the endothermic process in PtCo, indicating Au's thermodynamic preference for the surface. For PtCo, Co atoms prefer migrating to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. This segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive for Co on clean Pt(111) surfaces. Studies confirm that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation's role is supported by modern experimental and computational techniques, revealing trends in Pt alloy systems. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. 3d metals enhance the stability of Pt-skin surfaces, even under adsorbate coverage, compared to pure Pt, due to the protective role of subsurface 3d atoms. This enhancement, opposite to oxygen adsorption strengths, modifies electronic and geometric properties, boosting catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement delays Pt atom dissolution, associated with a positive potential shift.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects are observed for D, CO, and D adsorption upon alloy formation, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects, as the surface bond length deviation is minimal. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. An example is the formation of elongated 2D Ag adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 on a Pt(1 0 0) surface at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes alloying at the perimeter of these adislands, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. This alloy spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate some mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, illustrating how reaction conditions can affect the catalyst's properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying conditions, impacting catalytic properties. NSAs bind hydrogen weakly like noble metals but dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, which are pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed by considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for pharmaceuticals and hydrogen storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models affect quantitative properties but not main trends, suggesting that advanced nanofabrication techniques could optimize NSA structures for catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni, illustrating how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, affecting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a critical role in facilitating the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, suggesting new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis in Pt-based systems, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity, with crystal planes playing a significant role.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. These catalysts, with the second metal in various states, offer greater surface complexity, critical for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamically changes during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are more thermodynamically stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. 3d TMs favor subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size, but segregate to the surface under oxidizing conditions, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the structure-reaction environment interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, affecting stability and catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to atomic radius differences, is common and tunable by gas treatments. Oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation, whereas hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by the redox potential of gases, are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 [1], and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient, cost-effective catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, driven by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly boosts catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, directly linked to surface segregation. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is crucial, as adsorbates can alter these trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. This research is pivotal for understanding the performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications, as demonstrated by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on a Pt-skin surface compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) show that surface segregation of Pd and Pt occurs after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch between guest and host metals. Larger guest metals (Pt, Pd) favor inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. The floating behavior indicates that Pt and Pd can dissolve in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir displays antisegregation. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding surface structure dynamics.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, especially in Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in binding CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles, as these conditions prevent the formation of necessary Pt site ensembles.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. Experimentally, this was verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, showing subsurface structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends were confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, with Δεd used to screen alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements support these predictions, revealing two segregation regions and bridging the materials gap. Linear trends show the correlation of stability with d-band center differences applies beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, potential cycles in PtFe alloys lead to the dissolution of Fe and the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, significantly impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Ongoing research examines the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, 50% Fe content in Pt-Fe alloys enhances electrocatalytic activity 25 times compared to pure Pt, attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not just interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-based alloys enhance oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity in PEM fuel cells due to surface segregation, addressing Pt's sluggish kinetics. PtAu alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, favoring Pt-skin formation and enhancing stability, unlike PtCo alloys where Co is less likely to enrich surfaces. Surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable for Au but unfavorable for Co, affecting Co's continuous segregation. Pt-skin surfaces have a four times higher reaction rate than pure Pt, highlighting the crucial role of surface segregation in catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals improve surface adsorption properties, enhancing Pt-skin surface stability compared to pure Pt, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which enhances catalytic properties like increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from the alloys maintain enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) surfaces into PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This affects catalytic activity and selectivity. Stepwise annealing of submonolayer Pt-covered Ru(0001) surfaces to form PtxRu1-x/Ru(0001) monolayer alloys reveals the profound influence of surface structure on adsorption properties. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are observed, highlighting the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, altering properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to find alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. These alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, show enhanced ORR activities, particularly when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces on annealed Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length of alloy systems. For Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1), the surface bond length deviation after Pt segregation is minimal, indicating that the electronic structure modified by surface segregation is the primary factor for enhanced ORR activities. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, specifically Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0), creating Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to a nanophasic alloy spread. Elevated temperatures cause Ag to mix with bulk Pt, altering catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin surface also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based NSAs, exhibit thermodynamic stability and surface dynamics influenced by reaction conditions. These NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them pivotal in hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications, where selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. Stability is assessed in a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends, promising high hydrogenation activity for pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is a key parameter for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks the activity of Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface metal stability. DFT predicts stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, with crystal plane effects guiding bimetallic catalyst design for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties due to increased surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based bimetallics show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, crucial for optimizing performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys, like PtNiPt(111), favor subsurface configurations over surface ones in vacuum, demonstrating thermodynamic stability. Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred in fuel cell applications. Segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen-binding energies determine surface composition; hydrogen can induce subsurface admetal segregation, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence Pt-3d alloy catalysts' stability, segregation, and structure. Reductive conditions favor 3d TM subsurface placement, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation and oxidized island formation. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt to release strain, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the segregation process, whereas oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metals to segregate due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes during oxidation or reduction depend on gas redox potential, crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, enhancing catalytic properties. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, crucial for designing high-performance catalysts. Structural transformations under varying reaction conditions affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly enhances catalytic activities, especially in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates under operating conditions can alter surface composition, affecting catalytic performance. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is crucial for understanding and optimizing the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), Pd(111). Size mismatch enhances segregation by favoring impurity inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), influenced by Pd content, 2D component distribution, and Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, driving surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) segregate, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely antisegregates even with oxygen. Surface structure, influenced by the first few layers' atomic arrangement and segregation, is pivotal for catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, critical for Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility favor its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Contiguous Pt sites are essential for CO oxidation, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental verifications demonstrate the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but they segregate with adsorbed oxygen, favoring surface configurations. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd predicts stability trends, and empirical equations forecast thermodynamic stability in various environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa, impacting catalytic performance. DFT and experimental results on single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil confirm these trends, bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Simulations show Pd segregates to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates in the core. Notably, Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe bimetallic catalysts, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, with predominantly (111)-oriented facets, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and contribute to the formation of this protective layer. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, further elucidating its role in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for understanding catalytic implications under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au segregation, thermodynamically favorable due to exothermic processes, unlike PtCo alloys where Co migration to the surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt-based alloys show a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation in catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. 3d metals improve surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces, especially in oxygen-covered conditions. This stability, linked to oxygen adsorption strength, enhances catalytic properties, including oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates adsorbate removal, boosting the ORR rate, and the stability of Pt-skin surfaces delays Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials, as 3d subsurface atoms play a protective role.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects demonstrate probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local surface structure and composition, crucial for understanding catalytic properties in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts catalytic activities in bimetallic systems, especially in Pt-based catalysts used in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, impacting catalytic properties. In Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, Ag growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, spreading across the surface with sufficient Ag. Temperature-dependent AES studies show mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions alter structural dynamics and stability, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show pronounced surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also improves electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique properties, binding atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability can be assessed using a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs confirm modified catalytic activity, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution determine the extent of Pt segregation. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent Pt surface segregation entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage, with zero coverage at working potentials (0.9 V) being crucial. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, balancing stability and activity. Low Mo content offers higher stability but lacks activity, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This behavior is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results highlight the potential for using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, highlighting the role of crystal planes in subsurface stability and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals in the subsurface, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts. Their surface structure, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, dynamically changes during reactions, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity based on the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) shows greater thermodynamic stability than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys for fuel cell applications. Surface composition is dictated by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen's effect contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as observed in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, emphasizing the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, illustrating tunable surface structures via gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 [1] and are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly impacts catalytic activities, notably enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has attracted extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, the presence of adsorbates under operating environments can modify surface segregation and composition, critically affecting catalytic properties. Understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is thus crucial for their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show complete segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface layer after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with minor Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen preferentially adsorbs at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the surface layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, especially in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These insights are pivotal for understanding catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate to surface structures with oxygen. Experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, PtNiPt shows highest resistance, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends are consistent across environments, favoring subsurface configurations in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations in oxygen. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions, aligning DFT and experimental results, bridging the materials gap from single crystals to polycrystalline substrates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer is underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-Fe alloys. Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, reaching 25 times higher than pure Pt at 50% Fe content, attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface. This enhancement is crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the outermost layer, is crucial, enhancing catalyst stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring thermodynamics, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic process of Au segregation to the Pt(111) surface contrasts with the endothermic process for Co, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces uniquely activate the ORR, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions enhance stability and catalytic properties. 3d metals improve surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces in clean and oxygen-covered conditions, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. This modifies electronic and geometric properties, enhancing adsorbate binding and catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation to a Pt-skin layer boosts the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, with stability enhancement linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, impacting adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interactions. This transformation modifies adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating sensitivity to local structure and composition. Surface structure significantly influences adsorption properties, crucial for understanding catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, exhibits enhanced performance when alloyed with 3d metals. This enhancement is attributed to modifications in surface electronic structure and bond length. For example, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys demonstrate a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The primary factor in this enhancement is the altered electronic structure due to surface segregation, not geometric changes. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation, impacting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. In Ag-Pt alloys, elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K triggers AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry that spreads across the surface. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, illustrating how temperature-dependent structural dynamics can alter catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) uniquely bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects determine the extent of Pt segregation. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, while substituting with suppressing metals prevents it, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is critical for high activity and stability. Surface Pt atoms in alloys are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, but adsorbed O atoms can facilitate Pt removal. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable and active alloy at high potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage playing a key role in facilitating ORR. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity, as it ensures high stability at high potentials without compromising activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. These findings open new avenues for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces, enhancing catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with more Cu in the second layer. The results suggest that molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes can be a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, applicable to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes influence subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting ORR activity, crucial for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, outperform monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics featuring Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering tunability for catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d transition metals under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Conversely, oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This dynamic enhances CO oxidation activity when 3d TMs are atomically dispersed on Pt(111) surfaces. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal, as it determines alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, depending on reaction gas redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, crucial for designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation, affecting catalytic properties in various applications. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers, with distinct Fe-Pt surface configurations produced by different reactions. For example, Fe49Pt51 alloys with a 100% Pt topmost layer exhibit 25 times higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, enhances catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals show superior oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt, exemplified by Pt3Co, where Pt-skin surfaces boost reaction rates fourfold. Adsorbates under operational conditions alter surface composition and segregation, impacting catalytic properties, underscoring the significance of studying segregation trends for optimized catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) host favors surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic distribution in catalytic alloys' initial layers significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of segregation's impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and performance, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface migration, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference for surface migration to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces due to low Pt site ensemble probability, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental evidence confirm the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with hydrogen, but predict 3d atom segregation to the surface with oxygen adsorption. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is the most susceptible. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary among crystal facets, with Pt3dPt(100) having higher barriers than Pt3dPt(111). Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties in subsurface structures for dehydrogenation and ORR could halt reactions in surface structures, and vice versa for steam reforming. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, can screen potential bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregation to the outer layers and a gradient Pt concentration from surfaces to bulk in PtPd nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd atoms showing a facet preference on the nanoparticle shell. These phenomena have substantial effects on catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "In PtFe bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions lead to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, crucial for its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at a 25-fold increase over pure Pt at 50% Fe content. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, demonstrating the role of thermodynamic preferences in the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, and their catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt's slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, leading to research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring surface migration, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, hindering continuous segregation. This is due to the exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies show that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in Pt-based alloys has been extensively studied, revealing trends and characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. The introduction of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption properties and the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, thanks to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. This stability is observed under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, improving catalytic performance and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit enhanced stability under adsorbate coverage, with a positive potential shift indicating delayed Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, impacting adsorption properties. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects alter adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the catalytic implications of surface transformations.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by less expensive metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced by appropriate structures. Pt alloys with 3d metals show enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces. Annealing above 600 K promotes alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding, weakly binding atomic hydrogen like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and potentially easing hydrogen separation and storage. NSA stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote negative Pt surface segregation, enhancing stability, while Ag, Au, and Pd induce positive segregation energies, reducing Pt surface exposure. The degree of Pt surface segregation is governed by relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with transition metals that enhance Pt segregation strengthens surface Pt concentration, whereas metals like Ag, Au, and Pd prevent Pt from segregating to the surface, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. However, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as the best alloy, achieving high stability and activity with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier towards OOH dissociation. Only Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict enhanced ORR activity due to crystal plane effects on subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100).", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d metals outperform pure Pt in reactions. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, offer tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the critical role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is pivotal, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen's binding energy influencing segregation. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect, whereas strong ones like oxygen significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. These dynamics affect catalytic properties; Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity [3]. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is crucial [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, such as PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Understanding surface structural configurations and their stability under different atmospheres is crucial for optimizing Fe-Pt catalyst performance, as evidenced by their higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, driven by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt-3d alloys exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation in catalysis. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can alter surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying surface segregation under these conditions is critical for understanding Pt-based alloys' performance, as evidenced by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on a Pt-skin surface compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show strong surface segregation of Pd and Pt, with near-complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing from Ru(0001) to Pd(111), aligning with observed segregation trends. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt: 0.277 nm, Pd: 0.275 nm) and Ru(0001) (0.270 nm) enhances surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying, reveal distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorption prefers the bridge site over the (100) step on (211) surfaces of Pt-based alloys, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core). Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation under oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, significantly influenced by segregation, is crucial for catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention (1). CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (2). Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to the surface to bind CO (3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure (6), (8). These dynamics profoundly affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified by DFT predictions and experiments. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher for Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111). DFT predictions correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt. Δεd can screen bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements confirm segregation predictions and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends in stability correlation extend beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, significantly affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed due to increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, protects the alloy from corrosion, significantly impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding light on electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells, is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, enhance oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring the segregation process, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation significantly impacts the stability and catalytic efficiency of Pt-based catalysts, with Pt-skin surfaces showing a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Studies using experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys. The segregation process, involving interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo, illustrating the thermodynamic and kinetic differences between Au and Co in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly enhance the stability of Pt-skin surfaces by acting as protective subsurface atoms that bind strongly to the surface layer. This leads to improved catalytic properties, including increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and enhanced electrochemical stability against dissolution. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting the oxygen reduction reaction rate. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys exhibit delayed Pt atom dissolution, indicating enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. Surface structure, crucial for bimetallic catalysts, affects adsorption properties through ensemble effects and electronic interactions, highlighting its importance even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, impacts physical and chemical properties, notably altering catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to develop cost-effective alternatives have focused on Pt-based alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent behavior of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, where elongated 2D-adislands form at room temperature, and annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to the formation of a nanophasic alloy confined to the surface layer. At higher silver concentrations, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Studies reveal that Ag mixes with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, highlighting the significant impact of reaction conditions on the structural dynamics and catalytic performance of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys demonstrate significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that reduces O and OH binding strength, boosting ORR activity compared to bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit heightened electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and surface segregation, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit weak atomic hydrogen binding, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, critical for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and considering hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw strongly binding alloy components to the surface. Hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models exist but do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Advanced nanofabrication techniques could enhance control over metal catalyst surface structures, potentially revolutionizing catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Transition metals, including V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The degree of Pt segregation is governed by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals enhances Pt surface segregation, while substituting it with suppressing metals diminishes this effect.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, especially under electrochemical conditions with oxygen coverage, is crucial for catalytic activity. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for high activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure stabilizes upon alloying, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as enhancing surface stability at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo exhibits lower kinetic barriers for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity. The stability and activity of Pt2Mo skin alloys are optimally balanced, with a Mo content of 30% achieving the best performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new avenues for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to various coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The CuPt near-surface alloy is a promising water-gas shift catalyst due to reduced PtCO bonding. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes influence oxygen-induced segregation and subsurface stability of 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, impacting catalytic properties. DFT predicts subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, similar to reversible processes observed in monometallic catalysts. This redox dependence allows for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity in bimetallics.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are thermodynamically more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces in Pt3d alloys show a thermodynamic preference, impacting fuel cell applications. Surface composition is dictated by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen's influence mediated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface/subsurface interchange, whereas strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with 3d TMs favoring subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, but oxygen adsorption can induce segregation of 3d transition metals. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes, reversible under changes in reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial for real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts display high selectivity for CO oxidation and enhanced activity in hydrogenation reactions, attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, crucial for designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show significantly higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times greater activity in oxygen reduction reactions, as evidenced by studies showing 100% selectivity for CO oxidation and high hydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, significantly enhances catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit superior oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, highlighting the critical role of surface segregation. The Pt-skin surface, formed by Pt segregating on the topmost layer, shows a fourfold increase in ORR rate, demonstrating the phenomenon's impact on catalytic performance. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is essential for understanding how adsorbates influence surface composition and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original surface alloy composition is restored, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with a slight Pt loss during re-alloying. Surface alloy stability varies, possibly due to lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with the observed segregation of Pt and Pd. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation, providing additional driving force. The floating behavior, observed through deposition, annealing, and re-alloying, confirms the tendency for surface segregation. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co. Notably, Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of surface distribution in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, impacting Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility favor its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion for CO binding is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, which is unlikely on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, explaining why CO oxidation doesn't occur on initially pure Au clusters.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregating under oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. These structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. This impacts catalytic performance, as optimal binding properties in subsurface structures could halt reactions due to strong binding, or prevent reactions in surface structures due to weak binding, according to Sabatier's principle. The correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can predict stability in various environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, creating a Pt-enriched core, with Pd favoring (100) facets over (111) facets. These phenomena significantly impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior through CO adsorption and oxidation studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe at 50% content enhances electrocatalytic activity 25 times more than pure Pt, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, demonstrating the critical role of alloy composition in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt's slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to the investigation of Pt alloys with transition metals for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms, is critical for enhanced stability and catalytic properties. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, due to thermodynamic favorability. Au segregation to the Pt(111) surface is exothermic, whereas Co's migration to the second layer in PtCo alloys makes continuous Co segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern studies using experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions, revealing the importance of interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and vacancy regeneration in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions notably affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems enhance surface adsorption properties, boosting Pt-skin surface stability, which is protective against dissolution, particularly under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, observed in surfaces, correlates with oxygen adsorption strength in alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, influencing adsorbate binding strength, improving catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate. The positive potential shift associated with Pt-skin surfaces indicates delayed Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. Surface structure critically influences adsorption for D, CO, and D, highlighting its importance in bimetallic catalysts' performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, show enhanced ORR activities, particularly when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role in this enhancement, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., where the ORR on Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on Pt(1 0 0). Upon annealing above 600 K, a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer is created through extensive alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands. This alloy spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies show mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions influence structural dynamics and stability, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics under varying reaction conditions, influenced by thermodynamic preferences. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, which are pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for improved catalytic activity. Select NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, depending on the segregation energy and hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence Pt surface segregation. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by relative surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, with doping elements impacting these factors.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying elements stabilize the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. In Pt2Ti alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding, reflecting O's anion-like behavior. Mo is identified as beneficial in Pt2M alloys, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, with OOH dissociation playing a key role. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are essential for oxygen reduction on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly affect the stability of subsurface 3d metals under oxygen exposure, impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. DFT calculations reveal that crystal plane orientation influences subsurface metal stability and ORR performance, highlighting the role of structural dynamics in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their intricate surface structures, surpass monometallic counterparts in catalytic efficiency. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, allowing for the adjustment of catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating thermodynamic preference. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, suggesting a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the critical interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by various gases. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes in response to O2 and H2 contribute to surface structure and composition oscillations, significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions [1,2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence these trends, changing surface composition and affecting catalytic properties. This research is essential for optimizing Pt-based catalysts in various applications, as evidenced by enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals and the unique catalytic activity of Pt-skin surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, though some Pt loss occurs. Stability differences may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) at 500 K contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers of catalysts significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of surface characterization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, crucial for Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility at >17% Au composition favor its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it's absent on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to low Pt site ensemble probability. These factors influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    