Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom surface segregation, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd correlates with thermodynamic stability and kinetic barriers, predicting stability trends in various conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures with optimal binding may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT and experiments confirm subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary among Pt3dPt structures, with Pt3dPt(100) having higher barriers than Pt3dPt(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the core, creating Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has implications for catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, with ongoing studies focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity for fuel cells, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, as per recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting the investigation of Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for catalytic properties. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au surface segregation, unlike PtCo alloys where Co is unable to enrich the surface. Au's exothermic segregation process indicates thermodynamic favorability, whereas Co's tendency to migrate to the second layer makes continuous segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process is critical for understanding the enhanced catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by a four times higher ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems enhance surface adsorption properties, improving stability in clean and oxygen-covered Pt-skin surfaces due to the protective role of subsurface 3d atoms. This leads to better catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting catalytic activity. Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt, emphasizing the importance of alloy composition in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) into PtRu surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic effects, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. This highlights sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, crucial for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Alternative catalysts, focusing on Pt-based bimetallic alloys with less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, notably in Pt-3d metal alloys. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s study, where the ORR on Pt-skin surfaces of annealed Pt3Co alloys is four times more active than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length. For Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the surface bond length deviation after Pt segregation is minimal, suggesting that the electronic structure, not geometry, is the main factor for enhanced ORR activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy. This process illustrates how thermodynamic factors influence catalyst structure, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. NSAs, or near-surface alloys, exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them critical for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers. NSAs demonstrate high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for the production of chiral pharmaceuticals and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed through a two-step procedure: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, surface segregation of Pt is influenced by transition metals, with promoting metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo enhancing segregation and suppressing metals such as Ag, Au, Pd preventing it. The extent of Pt segregation on surfaces like Pt3Ni (111) is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. This impacts catalytic properties, as promoting metals strengthen Pt segregation while suppressing metals prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in the clean state. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OR activity. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for both high activity and stability. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, the less reactive Cu in CuPt near-surface alloys segregates to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for enhancing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict enhanced ORR activity under oxygen, highlighting the role of crystal planes in bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. These catalysts, with the second metal in various states and locations, show increased surface complexity and superior catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface exhibit exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to monometallic catalysts under redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, particularly in Pt-based systems, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals that subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in determining surface structure and catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic impacts catalytic properties; Pt surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to its larger atomic radius, which releases strain at the bimetallic surface. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, forming oxides that encapsulate Pt surfaces due to their low surface energy. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions depend on gas redox potential, crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts, featuring Pt-skin structures, demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions. Enhanced catalytic properties are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalysis relationships, aiding in the design of high-performance catalysts. Fe49Pt51 alloys exhibit higher activity in oxygen reduction reactions than pure Pt, underscoring the significance of optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is crucial for catalytic activities, significantly influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals underscore the impact of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can modify surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studies reveal that the unusual catalytic activity of Pt-skin surfaces, with reaction rates four times that of pure Pt, highlights the importance of surface segregation. Understanding Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is essential for their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) reveal significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps show distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's strong adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atom arrangement in initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects on surface structure in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and CO adsorption conditions significantly impact the stability and configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, as evidenced by its energetic favorability over Pt (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at Au compositions >17%. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, due to thermodynamic favorability (density functional theory calculations). CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, explaining its absence on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These dynamics have substantial implications for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt least. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation are higher in subsurface structures. Δεd screens alloys for stability, empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Binding energy differences highlight stability's importance in reacting environments. Oxygen binding energy differences suggest surface structures may halt or prevent reactions if subsurface structures have optimal binding properties. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, surface MPtPt(111) with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements confirm subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. AES shows two segregation regions, aligning DFT predictions with polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential, maintaining a general stability trend across environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulations on PtPd nanoparticles show Pd segregation to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, and Pt concentration gradients with Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific thermodynamic conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties. This process, initially studied for fuel cell applications, leads to the formation of a Pt skin layer that is being further investigated for its electrocatalytic behavior in CO adsorption and oxidation, as evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak after potential cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe at 50% content boosts electrocatalytic activity 25-fold, attributed to surface 5d-vacancies, crucial for high-performance fuel cell cathode electrocatalysts, demonstrating the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to surface segregation, leading to the formation of a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer, enhancing stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable, as evidenced by an exothermic process (0.57 eV). Conversely, Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces, as surface Co atoms tend to migrate to the second layer, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive, due to an endothermic process (0.45 eV) and a higher energy barrier for migration. Surface segregation plays a critical role in the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys, as Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have been employed to understand surface segregation trends in Pt alloy systems, revealing the components of surface and subsurface regions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces under oxygen adsorption, which boosts catalytic properties like increased ORR rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further enhancing the ORR rate, while 3d metals modify electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing-induced transformation of Pt islands into surface alloys on PtRu/Ru(0001) significantly alters adsorption properties, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, and emphasizing the role of surface structure in bimetallic catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the ORR in fuel cells, is often replaced by less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys, enhancing ORR activities, especially when alloyed with 3d metals. Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that the ORR on Pt-skin structures of Pt3Co alloys showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributing the enhancement to modified electronic structures through surface segregation rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic Pt-based catalysts. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, affecting structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, potentially aiding selective hydrogenation reactions and hydrogen separation and storage. Deviations from idealized NSA structures quantitatively affect adsorbate properties but do not alter main trends, suggesting precise control of metal catalyst surface structure through advanced nanofabrication techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The extent of Pt segregation is influenced by its relative surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, while doping with suppressing metals can prevent it, impacting the catalyst's stability and catalytic properties under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation (Quote 1). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote 2). Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt (Quote 9). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving a balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation in Pt-based systems, notably Pt-3d alloys, varies with crystal plane, impacting subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties, especially ORR activity, as DFT calculations predict. Crystal plane effects on stability and ORR activity are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially those with 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d metals show exceptional catalytic properties. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity, similar to reversible processes observed in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) exhibits greater stability than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Surface composition is governed by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen's binding energy influencing segregation. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, while adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect. Strong adsorbates like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "3d TMs in Pt-based catalysts prefer subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size, but segregate to the surface under oxidizing conditions, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces enriched with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are due to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, linked to enhanced catalytic activity, has been a focal point of research. Studies often concentrate on vacuum conditions, yet real reaction environments with adsorbates profoundly impact segregation trends and surface composition, crucial for catalytic properties. Understanding surface segregation under adsorbates is essential for optimizing Pt-based alloy catalysts, as evidenced by a four-fold increase in ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) via STM and AES reveal significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt, driven by surface energy differences (Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111)) and size mismatch between guest (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) metals. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation, even in the presence of oxygen. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of surface distribution and segregation's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, confirmed by density functional theory. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites, is inhibited on 100% Au surfaces due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles, as seen in PtAu clusters before CO exposure.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt lowest, to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd predicts stability in various environments, correlating with kinetic barriers. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability trends predict subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen, with empirical equations forecasting thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a Pt concentration gradient from surface to core in PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets, significantly impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, is created by Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shielding the alloy from corrosion. The layer's formation enhances catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing research exploring its electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. The enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not changes in interatomic distance or surface roughness, highlighting the role of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells has led to the exploration of Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic efficiency. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to kinetic and thermodynamic barriers. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, as observed by Stamenkovic et al. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process and can be observed in acidic solutions. The segregation model interprets these phenomena, highlighting the exothermic process for Au and endothermic for Co in Pt-based systems, indicating the thermodynamic and kinetic prohibitions for Co segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals boost surface adsorption and stability, notably in oxygen-rich environments. This enhancement, linked to 3d subsurface atoms, strengthens oxygen adsorption, altering electronic and geometric properties, thus enhancing catalytic performance. A Pt-skin layer's formation facilitates adsorbate removal, accelerates reaction rates, and shields against Pt atom dissolution, bolstering electrochemical stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) into PtRu surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This transformation affects catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, crucial for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic properties. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is essential for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys demonstrate a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, underscoring the role of surface electronic structure and bond length in catalytic efficiency. Theoretical approaches and environmental factors, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation, directly affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on Pt(1 0 0). Annealing above a certain threshold leads to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface, spreading with sufficient Ag. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions affect catalyst stability and structure, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as observed in specific alloys.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing new NSAs for these applications, with some NSAs enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, suitable for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is evaluated by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can influence surface composition by attracting alloy components. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be gauged by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but this doesn't significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution determine the extent of segregation. The doped element's surface energy, strain, and heat of solution collectively influence Pt surface segregation energy, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a low Mo content (below 30%) achieving higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. This bonding of adsorbates can alter local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Under oxygen exposure, crystal planes in Pt-based catalysts influence subsurface 3d metal stability, impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. DFT predictions reveal plane-specific subsurface stability, essential for understanding catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit enhanced surface complexity, with the second metal in various states, which is critical for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity based on redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt3d alloys, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in modifying surface configurations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments (Quote 2). Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, to release strain (Quote 4). Oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation onto the top surface (Quote 6), while hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect this process (Quote 16). Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides (Quote 8). Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential (Quote 20). These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, as seen in Pt-skin structures with quadrupled reaction rates compared to pure Pt (Quote 6). Adsorbates under operating conditions can alter surface composition and catalytic properties, highlighting the need to study segregation trends under adsorption for Pt-based alloys, as catalytic performance is determined by surface geometry and electronic structure (Quote 13).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys restored their original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer, though Pt showed slight loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with Pt and Pd segregation trends. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) substrate promotes surface segregation by stressing the outer Ru layer.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the initial layers of catalytic alloys significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt (>17% Au) favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions, confirmed experimentally, show Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen adsorption causes 3d atoms to segregate to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. These trends, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predict subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Understanding these structures' stability in reacting environments is crucial due to the large differences in binding energies, impacting catalytic properties according to Sabatier's principle.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "In PtPd nanoparticles, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions lead to Pd surface segregation and Pt core concentration, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets on the shell, significantly affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "In situ electrochemical STM reveals that under specific conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys in 0.1 M HClO4 solution leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets. Potential cycles enhance this process, creating a shield that protects the PtFe alloy from corrosion, critical for understanding electrode materials in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines its electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, electrocatalytic activity is maximized at 50% Fe content, achieving 25 times higher activity than pure Pt due to surface 5d-vacancy. This finding, despite scarce literature on thermodynamic impacts, underscores significant catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting the investigation of Pt-based alloys for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is pivotal for enhanced stability. Au demonstrates strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring the segregation process, whereas Co is unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, achieving a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt catalysts, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s study. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloy systems, characterizing surface and subsurface regions, and interpreting phenomena from a kinetics perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, particularly in oxygen-rich environments. This stability, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals boosts catalytic performance by modifying electronic and geometric properties, increasing the ORR rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation aids in the removal of adsorbed species, further elevating the ORR rate. The stability of Pt-skin surfaces is linked to a positive potential shift, which delays Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity through changes in local structure and composition. This highlights the critical role of surface structure in catalytic performance, emphasizing sensitivity to probe molecule adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly alters physical and chemical properties, impacting catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some Pt. Surface segregation in Pt alloys with 3d metals boosts ORR activities, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s observation that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions can influence surface segregation, which plays a key role in ORR activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, particularly temperature, significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, as demonstrated by the Ag-Pt system. At room temperature, elongated 2D adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Upon heating above 600 K, these adislands alloy extensively, forming a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as observed in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit weak hydrogen binding akin to noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, which are critical for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed through a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, facilitating selective hydrogenation reactions and potentially simplifying hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping inhibit it. The extent of Pt segregation, influenced by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni, significantly affects stability, structure, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of maintaining zero oxygen coverage for optimal activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies, allowing for stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds, as observed in Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding. Pt2Mo is notably stable at high electrochemical potentials, offering a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt, with the barrier to OOH dissociation being crucial for OR activity. A 30% Mo content in Pt2Mo skin alloys achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with lower Mo content providing higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly drives the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is attributed to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, opening new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, supporting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces. The CuPt near-surface alloy's potential as a water-gas shift catalyst is due to reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt surface with Cu in the second layer.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, oxygen exposure and crystal plane orientation influence subsurface 3d metal stability, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen, with crystal planes impacting ORR activity, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with enhanced surface complexity, surpass monometallic catalysts in performance. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic properties. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, highlighting the role of Eseg. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates' Pauling electronegativity affects surface configuration changes, with strong electronegativity leading to surface segregation at high coverage, as seen with oxygen. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity [3], underscoring the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, influenced by the atomic radius favoring Pt. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and excel in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe exhibit higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a four-fold increase in ORR rate, highlighting the role of surface segregation. Studying this phenomenon under surface adsorption, common in catalytic reactions, is crucial for understanding and optimizing the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES reveal that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit significant surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with minor Pt loss. Stability variations are linked to Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences, highlighting the role of thermodynamics and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst stability and structure.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "DFT studies reveal oxygen's preference for bridge sites over (100) steps in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation, even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers of catalysts significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and performance, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) favors its surface retention on Pt clusters (1). CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (2,3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, which is unlikely on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles forming (4,5,6,7,8). These factors critically impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. Experimental verification confirms these predictions and quantifies kinetic barriers for segregation. Stability trends, verified by DFT and experiments, suggest Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with oxygen. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties. Notably, PtPd nanoparticles exhibit Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd atoms preferentially segregating to the surface, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, primarily with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, induced by Fe dissolution, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic properties for fuel cells. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, solidifying the protective layer. The disappearance of a peak at 0.71 V, indicative of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process, confirms the protective role of the Pt skin layer. Ongoing research explores the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is critical for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, driving research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on alloy surfaces, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit favorable Au segregation, contrasting Co's inability to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favored, unlike Co, which migrates to the second layer, hindering continuous segregation. Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys, revealing the importance of surface segregation for enhanced catalytic properties. The process is exothermic for PtAu, favoring Au surface segregation, while it is endothermic for PtCo, making Co segregation thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals incorporated into Pt(111) enhance surface adsorption and stability, thanks to the protective role of subsurface 3d atoms. This modification boosts catalytic properties, such as the oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and stabilizes Pt-skin surfaces, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, altering adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects, significantly impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. This transformation highlights the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, crucial for understanding catalytic properties in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches, temperature, and the presence of adsorbates govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like temperature, impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming nanophasic alloys confined to the surface. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Reaction conditions influence catalyst properties and performance, as AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs uniquely bind hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet efficiently dissociate H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. This is critical for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs uniquely permitting weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers. This lowers the transition-state energy even on non-ideal surfaces, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution govern the degree of Pt segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is critical for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Low Mo content (below 30%) may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal plane effects on oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems influence subsurface stability and catalytic properties, critical for ORR activity. DFT predictions highlight the role of crystal planes in metal stability under oxygen, impacting bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, outperform monometallics due to complex surface structures. Surface dynamics under varying reaction conditions, influenced by redox potential, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, optimizing performance in diverse applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as more thermodynamically stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, depending on the redox potential of gases. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts display high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and excel in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in the design of high-performance, low-cost catalysts, as evidenced by high activity and selectivity in Fe-Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), outperforming pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces, formed by segregation, quadruple ORR rates, underscoring surface composition's role in catalytic efficiency. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is paramount, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and catalytic properties, impacting Pt-based catalysts' stability and performance in practical settings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) via STM and AES revealed significant surface segregation post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, with near-complete restoration of original composition and slight Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with Pt and Pd segregation tendencies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) substrate promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps, can be estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation. Surface atomic distribution, especially in the initial layers, significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the role of segregation in surface structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface, crucial for CO oxidation which requires contiguous Pt sites. Without sufficient Pt sites, CO oxidation is inhibited, highlighting the importance of surface configuration for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predictions, corroborated by experiments, show stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen triggers segregation, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties in subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments, essential for predicting bimetallic configurations' thermodynamic preferences in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions drive the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, simulations reveal Pd segregates to the surface, forming enriched shells, while Pt accumulates in the core. Pd exhibits a preference for (100) facets over (111) on the nanoparticle shell, significantly affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "In 0.1 M HClO4 solution, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys triggers the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic performance in fuel cells. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding light on its role in fuel cell electrode materials.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity 25-fold at 50% Fe content, due to surface 5d-vacancies, making it ideal for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity through surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin, boosting stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation on Pt-skin surfaces quadruples the ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process, involving interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo, crucial for optimizing bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces, which improves adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance. The Pt-skin layer facilitates faster oxygen reduction and increases electrochemical stability under adsorbate coverage, demonstrating enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the critical role of thermodynamics and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic performance, particularly in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems, influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, like Pt-3d alloys, undergo temperature-dependent transformations affecting stability and structure. At room temperature, elongated Ag adislands form on Pt(1 0 0), transforming into a nanophasic alloy upon annealing above 600 K. Higher temperatures promote Ag mixing with bulk Pt, altering the alloy's composition and structure, which significantly impacts catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, critical for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying conditions, impacting catalytic performance. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs defy conventional rules by allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen storage. NSA stability is assessed in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Real NSAs may differ from ideal models, but these deviations do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behavior.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The degree of Pt segregation is governed by its surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M vs. Pt3Ni crystals, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, with zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo enhances stability at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo showing a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OR activity. Pt2Mo is the only alloy showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. A 30% Mo content in Pt2Mo is optimal for achieving the best balance of stability and activity, with lower Mo content offering higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, and higher Mo content destabilizing the alloy and reducing activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen's impact on 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, moderated by crystal planes, dictates subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations show this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity, pivotal for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, as observed in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces in Pt3d alloys. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as observed in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high activity for CO oxidation, underscoring the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals like Pt to relieve strain, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial for catalytic processes in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions, attributed to subsurface Fe modifying surface Pt's electronic structure, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in the design of high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys 25 times more active, highlighting the importance of optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably in the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), exceeding pure Pt performance. This phenomenon, pivotal for activity enhancement, is significantly influenced by reaction conditions and surface adsorbates, which alter surface composition and catalytic properties. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is crucial for optimizing catalytic efficiency in applications, as adsorbates can modify surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) exhibit near-complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability is affected by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111)) and size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001). Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to lower Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution critically influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, while CO adsorption promotes Pt's diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is inhibited on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "Pt3dPt subsurface structures exhibit stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, as predicted by DFT, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. Experimentally verified, PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict stability trends across environments. Subsurface structures are preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, while surface structures are favored with oxygen. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT and experimental results on single crystals apply to polycrystalline substrates, revealing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in Pt3dPt(100) structures compared to Pt3dPt(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like PtPd nanoparticles. Simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, primarily with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. The protective mechanism is evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak, indicating increased Fe dissolution and Pt surface rearrangement. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, providing new insights for electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions enhance stability and catalytic properties, with electrocatalytic activity peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This boost is attributed to surface properties, not interatomic distance or roughness, demonstrating the critical role of surface dynamics in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's slow kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with transition metals for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is critical for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces, due to its tendency to migrate to the second layer, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies confirm that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. The exothermic process of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process for Co, illustrating the role of thermodynamics in surface segregation. Modern experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions, and elucidating the process of interlayer migration and vacancy movement.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, due to the protective effect of subsurface 3d atoms. This boosts catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further enhancing reaction rates. Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability under adsorbate coverage, highlighting the importance of 3d metals in structural dynamics and catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, changing adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. This highlights the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, affecting catalytic performance in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, is crucial in materials science and surface chemistry, affecting catalytic activities. Pt, a primary catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the leading electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cost-effective alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where catalytic properties, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures of Pt3Co alloys is four times more active than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of modified electronic structures through surface segregation for enhanced catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An illustrative case is the temperature-dependent transformation of Ag80Pt20 on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, which forms elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature and transitions to a nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal that elevated temperatures promote Ag mixing with bulk Pt, indicating that these factors can influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, with NSAs exhibiting unique hydrogen binding, similar to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in NSA development for these applications. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from ideal NSA models affect quantitative properties but do not alter main adsorbate behavior trends. Future advancements in nanofabrication techniques could enhance control over metal catalyst surface structure, benefiting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, promoting elements (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) enhance Pt surface segregation, while suppressing elements (Ag, Au, Pd) prevent it, significantly impacting catalytic properties. Doping with promoting elements strengthens Pt segregation, whereas suppressing elements entirely prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than on the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for oxygen reduction activity. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are essential for facilitating the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, rationalizing it through the increased PtCO bond strength. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for enhancing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen, highlighting crystal plane effects on ORR activity, critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallics, with enhanced surface complexity, surpass monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based bimetallics show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, allowing tuning of catalytic activity and selectivity under varying redox conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, and Pt3d alloys in fuel cells favor Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen's influence on segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces, as evidenced by studies on Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high activity for CO oxidation via a bi-functional mechanism [3], underscoring the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals' surface segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces, affecting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, as seen in a study achieving 100% selectivity [1]. Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2]. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4]. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, driven by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, significantly enhances catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit superior oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, highlighting the pivotal role of segregation. Under operational conditions, adsorbates can alter the surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is crucial, as it can significantly influence catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) reveal complete surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Surface alloy stability is influenced by Pd content, lower than Pt's 70%. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd segregating due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Experimental floating behavior suggests Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "DFT analysis reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic arrangement significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation effects in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention atop Pt clusters. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as density functional theory confirms. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites, doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, impacting catalytic properties in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    