Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregating with oxygen. DFT predictions, verified experimentally, reveal higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures compared to surface configurations. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, correlating with d-band center differences, predict preferred configurations in various environments. Oxygen binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in different conditions, and linear trends extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Segregation behavior is consistent across single crystal and polycrystalline substrates, bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, influencing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, Fe dissolution in a PtFe alloy leads to a Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. This process, indicated by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak, underscores the protective role of the Pt skin layer.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt is a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, yet its slow ORR kinetics limit efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have shown enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer, enhancing stability. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement correlates inversely with oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation leading to a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys still exhibit enhanced stability over pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, changes the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes affect the catalytic properties, impacting activity and selectivity. The study reveals that surface structure and composition significantly influence adsorption properties, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some Pt. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved with appropriate structures. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that these conditions influence the stability and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation is estimated by comparing the solute's segregation energy to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the pure solute and host. NSAs offer exceptional hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, potentially revolutionizing the production of chiral pharmaceuticals and hydrogen storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as evidenced by modified catalytic activity on non-ideal NSAs, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. This effect is influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability and catalytic activity of Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9). Pt2Mo exhibits lower kinetic barriers for oxygen reduction and OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity (Quote 10). The optimum Mo content in PtMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 19). Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with crystal planes impacting ORR activity. These factors influence surface segregation and structural dynamics, crucial for catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with the second metal in metallic or oxidized states on the surface, near-surface, or bulk, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure changes dynamically during reactions, influenced by redox potential, allowing tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is crucial, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also forecasted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different reaction atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal for catalysis, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt, closely tied to surface segregation. Studies have primarily explored surface and subsurface structures under vacuum, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can modify surface composition and segregation trends. Thus, understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for optimizing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss was noted. The stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied. A Boltzmann approach estimates Pt/Pd dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, critically affects catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its presence atop Pt (Quote 1). Immiscibility at high Au compositions reinforces this (Quote 1). CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (Quote 2). Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in binding CO (Quote 3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it fails on pure Au surfaces (Quote 8). These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in varying conditions is crucial for their catalytic performance in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predictions show these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but oxygen adsorption leads to 3d atom segregation to the surface. These predictions are confirmed experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) systems and extended to polycrystalline Pt to explore the effects of multiple crystal facets on segregation barriers. PtNiPt is the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is the most susceptible. The stability of these structures in different environments is demonstrated through DFT calculations and experimental verification on single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems. The large binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT results predict subsurface PtMPt(111) configurations are preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) configurations are favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation in the presence of oxygen and quantify activation barriers. AES results reveal two segregation regions, showing DFT predictions and experimental measurements are applicable to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations. Linear trends show the correlation of thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences can be applied beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts the driving potential of segregation. The stability trend predicts the same thermodynamically preferred configuration in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has implications for catalytic properties and performance in fuel cell applications, with ongoing studies focusing on the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not by changes in Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt is a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, but its ORR kinetics limit efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have shown enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, leading to a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation boosts Pt-based catalyst stability and ORR activity, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., who found that Pt-skin surfaces have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects in the rearrangement process. The segregation model explains these phenomena, particularly the exothermic process in PtAu and endothermic process in PtCo, indicating Co segregation is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals in alloys alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and enhanced electrochemical stability. Surface segregation leading to a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces alters their morphology from Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly impacting adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, changes the composition of adsorption ensembles and the electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes affect the activity and selectivity of the catalyst, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface. The study reveals that surface structure significantly influences adsorption properties, with ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the prime electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by cheaper metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces on annealed Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Ag growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, highlighting the role of temperature in structural dynamics and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, making them ideal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing new NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, which is beneficial for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and could potentially ease hydrogen separation and storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, and hydrogen's tendency to do so can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from segregating to the surface, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. The stabilization of the Pt d-band by alloying makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A low Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are significant, influencing bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with the second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced surface complexity and catalytic properties. Pt-based catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show superior performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, allowing tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d transition metals (TMs) under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Conversely, under oxidizing conditions, strong O-3d TM interaction causes surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, forming oxides that encapsulate Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes in Pt-based catalysts are crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions, attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces affect catalytic performance in various applications. Fe-Pt catalysts with metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers show different surface configurations based on preparation and reaction conditions. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals outperform pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding surface configurations' stability under elevated temperatures and different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Research has shown that surface segregation closely relates to activity improvement, with ORR being uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, achieving reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, catalytic reactions like ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can influence segregation trends and surface composition, making the study of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption critical for understanding catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys restored their original composition, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability difference may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch favors impurity inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's surface layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its surface presence on Pt-based systems. CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in varying conditions is crucial for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation. This is experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, revealing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. AES shows two segregation regions, bridging the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results indicate Pd atoms segregate to the surface, while Pt concentration rises inward, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle surface, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, creating a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This layer enhances catalytic properties, crucial for fuel cell applications, with ongoing research exploring its electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not by changes in Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the alloy surface, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring Pt-skin formation, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic process of Au segregation to the Pt(111) surface highlights its thermodynamic favorability, unlike the endothermic process for Co. Consequently, continuous Co segregation is unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., exhibit four times the ORR activity of pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The dissolution of metal atoms and rearrangement of Pt atoms in acidic solutions are critical to the segregation process, involving interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration. The segregation model interprets these phenomena, emphasizing the role of thermodynamics and kinetics in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, leading to improved catalytic performance, such as enhanced ORR rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. These changes are attributed to ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure and composition, observable by STM, critically affect adsorption properties, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen enhanced ORR activities in Pt-3d alloys due to surface segregation. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed a four-fold increase in ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces of Pt3Co alloys compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, not just surface geometry. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, forming elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic AgPt alloy that spreads across the surface. AES studies show that Ag mixes with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing catalytic activity. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), especially those in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique properties influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. NSAs can bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them ideal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. This is advantageous for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and could facilitate easier hydrogen separation and storage. The stability of NSAs is assessed in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends, as evidenced by modified catalytic activity on non-ideal NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M compared to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with the former group of transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas the latter group prevents it entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (1). Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is critical for both high activity and stability (8). Among various Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (9), with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt (20). The stability and activity of Pt2Mo make it an optimal choice for catalytic applications, achieving a balance that other alloys with lower or higher Mo content cannot match (20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity and superior catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, offering opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum upon annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates' Pauling electronegativity affects thermodynamic potential for configuration change, with strong electronegativity leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This structural adaptability enhances catalytic properties, as seen in Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs, which are highly active for CO oxidation via a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, specifically PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common and can be tuned by gas treatments. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation, while hydrogen presence does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes during oxidation or reduction are reversible, depending on reaction gas redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has spurred extensive research. Studies often concentrate on surface and subsurface structures under vacuum, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur in environments with adsorbates that can alter surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Thus, understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, except for a slight Pt loss. The stability differences may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd tending to segregate due to their higher surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the host (Ru) favors surface segregation by creating tensile stress. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface atomic distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces, lacking neighboring Pt sites. These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance in applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic applications. DFT calculations predict stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. These predictions are confirmed experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) systems and expanded to polycrystalline Pt to assess kinetic barriers for segregation. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, with empirical equations developed for predicting stability in other bimetallic systems. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, revealing two regions of segregation. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, with a (111)-oriented facet, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer develops due to the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shielding the alloy from corrosion. This protective mechanism has implications for catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for understanding the catalytic implications of bimetallic Pt-based alloys under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer, improving stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring thermodynamics, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces, due to kinetic barriers. Pt-skin surfaces, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., increase the ORR rate fourfold compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have characterized segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing critical surface defects and rearrangement processes. The segregation model explains phenomena in acidic solutions and interlayer migration, highlighting the exothermic process in PtAu and endothermic in PtCo, making Co segregation to clean Pt(111) surfaces thermodynamically and kinetically unfavorable.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. The introduction of 3d metals into Pt(111) alters surface adsorption properties, with stability enhancement observed in clean and oxygen-covered Pt-skin surfaces. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which bind strongly to the Pt surface layer. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, enhancing catalytic performance in applications like increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing affects the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, crucial for understanding catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface or sub-surface layers, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, influencing properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have centered on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced by appropriate chemical composition. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving forces behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Upon annealing above 600 K, AgPt exchange occurs, leading to nanophasic alloy formation confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that these factors influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also display increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these processes. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys like Pt3Ni, the addition of transition metals modifies Pt surface segregation. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This impacts the stability and catalytic properties under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt2Mo, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation. In the presence of O atoms, Pt removal is facilitated as O atoms stabilize surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Surface vacancies with OTi bonding in Pt2Ti skin alloys are more stable than those with OPt bonding, consistent with O's anion-like behavior. Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potentials (1.05 V) and has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, with OOH dissociation being a key parameter for activity. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a crucial role in the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in Pt2Mo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. The CuPt near-surface alloy (NSA) is unstable at high CO pressures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy (SA) structure. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and crystal planes influence subsurface 3d metal stability, impacting catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict oxygen-induced segregation and subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), affecting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals in the subsurface region. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic influences catalytic properties, as Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal in determining alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, notably Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes are fully reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons due to Pt-skin structures. The electronic structure modification by subsurface Fe influences surface species adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Surface structural configurations transform under cycles of oxidation and reduction, affecting catalytic performance in various applications. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as exemplified by Fe49Pt51 alloys with 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR. Understanding structural stability under different conditions is crucial for optimizing Fe-Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Reaction environments with adsorbates can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original surface alloy composition of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) was almost fully restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability differences may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd tending to segregate due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) substrate favors surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, including deposition, annealing, and re-alloying. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of surface atoms in the first layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to surface migrate for CO binding. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is inhibited on pure Au surfaces due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors influence catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is crucial for catalytic applications, with DFT predictions and experimental evidence showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregation with oxygen. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. This impacts catalytic properties, as optimal binding properties in subsurface structures could halt reactions due to strong binding, while surface structures might bind too weakly, preventing reactions. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, with Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that enhances corrosion resistance, crucial for fuel cell applications. Ongoing studies explore the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, highlighting the role of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring thermodynamics, whereas Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process, observed in various conditions, including acidic solutions, influences catalytic activity, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces where the ORR rate is four times higher than pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have elucidated segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface segregation in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. This stability enhancement is observed in both clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, with the degree of stability correlating inversely with oxygen adsorption strength. The protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, determined by their strong binding to the Pt surface layer, is crucial. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from the alloys still exhibit enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This affects the catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are crucial, impacting the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the ORR in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys showed a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches help understand surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, and annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the role of temperature in catalyst structure and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them ideal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. The stability of NSAs can be evaluated in two steps: assessing composition in vacuum and then considering hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to attract alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the pure solute and host. NSAs show promise for high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as confirmed by experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, or Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote stronger Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is significantly influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are typically less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is essential for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in the clean state. This is because Pt atoms at vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms. Additionally, second layer atoms exposed at the surface vacancy can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Ti skin alloys, for instance, exhibit more stable surface vacancies with OTi bonding than OPt bonding. Atomic O on metals behaves anion-like, preferring ionic-bond formation. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo being more stable than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The oxygen reduction reaction on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity. Crystal planes significantly influence subsurface stability and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with the second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties over monometallics. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to monometallic catalysts, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity by tuning the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO), 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. These changes affect catalytic properties, as Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity [3]. The interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity is crucial [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Surface structures of PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts undergo reversible changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces their top surface segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt, closely linked to surface segregation. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their catalytic performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Surface alloy stability varies with Pd content, lower in Pd (44%) than Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd segregation over Ru. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly affected by the arrangement of atoms in the first layers, crucially impacts catalytic activity in alloys. Understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects is vital for catalytic alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially impact bimetallic catalyst stability and performance, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why oxidation is absent on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to low Pt site ensemble probability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for their catalytic performance. DFT predictions, confirmed experimentally, show these structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in different environments, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. The large binding energy difference between surface and subsurface structures highlights the need to understand their stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, bridging the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation compared to Pt3dPt(111) configurations. The correlation of thermodynamic stability with Δεd can be extended beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation outcomes reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, with a (111)-oriented facet, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and form this protective layer, enhancing corrosion resistance and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing studies explore the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is explained by the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This affects the continuous segregation of Co, making it unlikely. Surface segregation's role is exemplified by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetics perspective. The exothermic process of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process of Co, further illustrating the differential effects of surface segregation on Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, and the presence of adsorbates like oxygen affects catalyst stability, yet Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing affects the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption are observed, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and temperature influence surface segregation, which is crucial for understanding catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated adislands form on Pt(1 0 0). Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions impact catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity compared to bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration under varying thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more readily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation is estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation by making energies more negative, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping leads to positive energies, suppressing Pt segregation. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with the former group strengthens Pt segregation, while the latter group prevents it entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, and zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly (Quote 2). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation barrier as a key parameter for OR activity (Quote 10). Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 20). Low Mo content (below 30%) may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting ORR activity. Crystal planes significantly influence subsurface stability and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity and the presence of a second metal in various states, exhibit superior catalytic properties compared to monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region show exceptional catalytic performance. The dynamic changes in catalyst surface structure during reactions, influenced by redox potential, offer opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates' Pauling electronegativity affects thermodynamic potential for configuration interchange, with strong electronegativity altering binding energy and promoting surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions like vacuum and CO, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic impacts catalytic properties, as seen in Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs, which exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal in alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces elucidates structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions. The optimization of Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding of stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is critical for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in activity improvement, especially under surface adsorption, underscores its importance for understanding catalytic properties and performance in applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was restored, indicating surface segregation of Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability variance may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied. A Boltzmann approach estimates Pt/Pd dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, significantly affected by the first 23 layers and segregation, critically impacts catalytic activity in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is hindered on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum, hydrogen, and oxygen environments is critical for catalytic applications. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, revealing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures compared to surface configurations. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd can screen alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experiments on single crystals apply to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show the correlation of stability with d-band center applies beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results indicate Pd atoms segregate to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing towards the core. Pd prefers (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer is underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells is improved by Pt-based alloys, which exhibit enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au in PtAu alloys shows strong surface segregation, thermodynamically favoring its presence on the surface, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate to the second layer, making Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is successfully interpreted by a model, especially from a kinetics perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, leading to improved catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and enhanced electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic activity. The stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt dissolution to higher potentials, and remains superior under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, changes the composition of adsorption ensembles and the electronic state of metallic constituents, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) reveals that surface structure and component distribution impact adsorption properties, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt. These changes have direct implications for the catalytic properties of the surface, showcasing the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced by modifying their chemical composition. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties. In Pt-based systems, such as Pt-3d alloys, silver's growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature, with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, through AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate some mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, indicating the influence of reaction conditions on bimetallic catalysts' structural dynamics and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these processes. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, an exception to the rule. NSAs exhibit high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, and hydrogen's tendency can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals modifies Pt surface segregation energies, impacting stability and structure. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects collectively influence Pt segregation. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by its relative energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M versus Pt3Ni crystals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly under electrochemical conditions, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element, with Pt2Mo exhibiting higher stability than pure Pt at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, making it more active than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes affect the thermodynamic stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, influencing surface segregation and structural dynamics. Oxygen-induced segregation is predicted through DFT calculations, impacting the stability of 3d metals in Pt(111) and Pt(100). This has implications for catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity, which is influenced by the crystal plane. These factors collectively determine the performance of bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with the second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity and catalytic properties over monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) under oxidation and reduction cycles have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers, influencing surface structural configurations. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under reaction conditions can alter surface segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer, albeit with a slight Pt loss. The stability variance is attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps, suggests a probability for Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces. Surface segregation is evident in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems, with Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibiting antisegregation behavior even under oxygen adsorption. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the lack of Pt site ensembles. These insights have implications for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    