Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate under oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. This stability trend, confirmed on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, correlates with d-band center differences, enabling bimetallic alloy screening. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing from surface to core. Pd's preference for (100) facets over (111) facets in the shell impacts catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtFe alloys, exhibit enhanced stability and catalytic properties. In situ electrochemical STM studies in 0.1 M HClO4 solution reveal the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and form this protective layer, shielding the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This layer's presence significantly boosts the alloy's catalytic performance in fuel cells, as ongoing research on CO adsorption and oxidation demonstrates.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structure, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe at 50% content boosts electrocatalytic activity 25-fold, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface rather than interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) kinetics limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, forming a Pt-skin, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit favorable Au segregation, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation unlikely. Studies reveal that Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR rates fourfold compared to pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface segregation dynamics for understanding Pt-based alloy behavior. The exothermic process in PtAu and endothermic in PtCo systems underscores thermodynamic influences on segregation, providing insights into the complex interplay between surface structure and catalytic properties in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals modify surface adsorption, enhancing stability under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which alter electronic and geometric properties, improving catalytic performance by facilitating the removal of adsorbed species and increasing oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This impacts catalytic activity and selectivity. STM observations reveal that surface structure and composition greatly influence adsorption properties for CO and D, demonstrating sensitivity to local structure and composition, even for active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, is critical in materials science and dramatically affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, especially when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin structures on annealed Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with theoretical approaches elucidating the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For example, Ag80Pt20 adislands on a Pt(1 0 0) surface evolve with temperature: elongated 2D-adislands form at room temperature, and annealing above a certain point promotes alloying, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that these factors can influence catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys show Pt surface segregation, forming a monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen chemistry on near-surface alloys (NSAs) is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes, with some NSAs binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. NSAs' stability can be assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates, particularly hydrogen, can induce surface segregation by binding strongly to alloy components. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, boosting hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, which is advantageous for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and could facilitate hydrogen separation and storage. To fully leverage NSAs' unique catalytic properties, precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is needed, potentially through improved nanofabrication techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect stability, surface segregation, and structure. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation by lowering energies, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd hinder it by raising energies. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by key factors, and doping with specific transition metals alters catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution, but O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable and active alloy at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is key for high activity and stability. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a crucial role in the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes impact oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface stability. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, influencing ORR activity. Crystal plane effects highlight structural dynamics' role in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. These catalysts feature enhanced surface structural complexity, with the second metal in various states, crucial for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures undergo dynamic changes during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying gaseous environments, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is pivotal, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) shows greater thermodynamic stability than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum upon annealing. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a thermodynamically favored Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, prompting 3d metals to segregate to the surface, as observed in Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, illustrating tunable surface structures via gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common, with hydrogen's weak bonding not affecting the segregation process. Oxygen adsorption can induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface, while oxidative environments can oxidize these metals, leading to encapsulation of Pt surfaces by 3d metal oxides. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals exhibit higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times higher activity in ORR than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, critically influences catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon significantly alters catalytic properties, with surface segregation under adsorbates playing a key role in activity improvement. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is essential for optimizing catalytic applications, as it affects surface composition and electronic structure, determining catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that re-alloying nearly restores the original composition, with Pd and Pt segregated to the surface, except for minor Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Observed floating behavior through preparation steps and estimated Pt (Pd) dissolution probability in the subsurface region reveal insights into the structural dynamics. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen preferentially adsorbs at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show surface segregation, whereas Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure for Pt-based alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility with Pt at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces, lacking neighboring Pt sites, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is crucial for catalytic applications, with DFT predicting stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. DFT predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and polycrystalline Pt, revealing activation barriers for segregation. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) configurations are preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) configurations are favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements verify predicted segregation and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends show correlation of thermodynamic stability with d-band center difference can be used beyond Pt3d alloys. General stability trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results indicate Pd segregates to the outer layers, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications, as indicated by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak. Ongoing studies are exploring the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at a 50:50 ratio with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to changes in Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Pt-skin surfaces, formed by Pt atom segregation, boost oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, vital for PEM fuel cells. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au surface segregation, a thermodynamically favorable exothermic process, unlike PtCo alloys where Co migration to the surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting surface segregation's role in ORR activity. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends and surface/subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the pivotal role of metal atom dissolution and rearrangement in the segregation process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals enhance the stability of Pt-skin surfaces, protecting against dissolution, especially in oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement correlates with oxygen adsorption strength and facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate. The presence of 3d metals improves catalytic properties, such as enhanced oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability, by altering electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties, which affects catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic interactions are key in adsorption, highlighting the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for active metals like Ru and Pt, as probe molecule adsorption is sensitive to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic properties due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For example, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the unique activity of segregated surfaces. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with electronic structure being the key factor for catalytic enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For instance, Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) at room temperature results in 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K facilitates AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads evenly across the surface. AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, underscoring the role of thermodynamics in structural dynamics and catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs, or near-surface alloys, bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with exceptional NSAs allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. This is beneficial for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates attract alloy components they strongly bind to the surface, and hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but this doesn't significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as confirmed by experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs showing modified catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas doping with noble metals such as Ag, Au, and Pd suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, which are influenced by the doped elements' effects on surface energy, strain, and heat of solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, like 0.9 V, is key for high activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure stabilizes upon alloying, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is stable at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, balancing stability and activity. A low Mo content may offer higher stability but lacks improved activity at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys pulls less reactive Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond. This impacts catalyst activity and selectivity, offering new possibilities for selective engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, especially in water-gas shift reactions. DFT calculations confirm Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increased Cu content. The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, affecting the stability of the alloy surface. These findings extend to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, highlighting the potential for dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for enhanced catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly impact the stability of subsurface 3d metals under oxygen exposure, affecting catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), with crystal planes crucially influencing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, governed by thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with complex surface structures, outperform monometallic counterparts in catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, allowing for tuning catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys, like PtNi, exhibit thermodynamic preference for subsurface PtNiPt(111) over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in fuel cell applications. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalyst stability, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Reductive conditions push 3d TMs into subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Notably, Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii to relieve strain, with Pt's larger radius contributing significantly. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals' surface segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes, reversible based on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impact catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is notably modified by subsurface Fe, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, crucial for designing high-performance catalysts. Surface transformations under varying conditions impact catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and CO preferential oxidation, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt, as seen in Fe49Pt51 alloys with 25 times the activity of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates under reaction conditions influence segregation trends, altering surface composition and catalytic properties. Studying these dynamics is crucial for understanding and optimizing Pt alloys' catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that re-alloying restores the original composition, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd (44%) versus Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111). Size mismatch favors Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, with the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core). Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution critically influences catalytic activity, underlining the significance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility favoring its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the lack of neighboring Pt sites, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, PtTiPt least. Stability trends, confirmed by DFT and experiments, use Δεd for alloy screening. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantify activation barriers. AES results show two segregation regions, bridging the materials gap. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Simulations show Pd segregates to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates in the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "In PtFe bimetallic catalysts, varying reaction conditions induce the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed under in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4. This process enhances Fe dissolution and Pt surface rearrangement, leading to a stable Pt layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, improving its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior through CO adsorption and oxidation studies.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, critical for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, particularly in Pt-skin formation, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits favorable thermodynamics for surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where surface migration is kinetically prohibitive. Studies show ORR is more active on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The contrasting behaviors of Au and Co highlight the thermodynamic and kinetic factors influencing bimetallic catalyst behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions enhance stability and catalytic properties. 3d metals improve surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, evident in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to the strong binding of 3d subsurface atoms to the Pt layer. Altered electronic and geometric properties from 3d metals increase adsorbate binding strength, boosting oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates adsorbed species removal, further enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably annealing temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Annealing transforms surface morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects upon alloy formation. Surface structure and composition greatly affect adsorption properties, influencing catalytic activity and selectivity. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) demonstrates probe molecule adsorption's sensitivity to the local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Alternative Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have been investigated. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through chemical composition modifications. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. Stamenkovic et al. found that ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length of alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, and annealing above 600 K promotes alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands. With sufficient Ag, a nanophasic AgPt alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal that Ag mixes with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions have a substantial impact on catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), notably in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen binding and dissociation properties, similar to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, critical for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes (Quote 2). Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. NSA stability is assessed in two steps: composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects (Quote 3). Adsorbates, particularly hydrogen, can induce surface segregation, with the tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences (Quote 5). Despite deviations from ideal models, NSAs show high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage (Quote 23), as supported by experimental studies.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. This behavior is governed by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (1,11). Oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than a perfect surface (2). In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding (6). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (9). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity (10). The stability of PtxMo alloys decreases with increasing potential, aligning with the rise in surface oxygen coverage above 0.9 V (14). The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar reaction profile as on Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height (15). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (19,20). Low Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity (21).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes' influence on subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen exposure dictates surface segregation and structural dynamics, impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), crucial for understanding ORR performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced stability and catalytic performance over monometallics due to complex surface structures. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals show superior catalytic activity. Surface structures dynamically adapt to reaction conditions, offering tunable catalytic properties under varying redox potentials.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, highlighting the role of segregation energy (Eseg) in dictating surface composition. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Hydrogen's influence on surface segregation is modulated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces, emphasizing the role of adsorbates in modifying surface configurations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size (Quote 1). Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands (Quote 2). Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity (Quote 3), highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, influenced by the larger atomic radius of Pt which promotes surface segregation to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface, potentially oxidizing them in oxidative environments and encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation and hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding high-performance catalyst design. Oxidative conditions can reduce Pt-skin stability, causing Fe surface segregation. Different reactions yield varying Fe-Pt configurations, impacting catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction and CO preferential oxidation. For example, Fe49Pt51 alloys with a pure Pt top layer showed 25 times higher activity in oxygen reduction than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, surpassing pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces, formed by Pt segregation, exhibit four times higher ORR rates. This unusual catalytic activity, influenced by surface composition, highlights the need to study segregation trends under adsorbate conditions, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and thus catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is nearly restored with Pd and Pt almost completely segregated to the surface, except for a slight Pt loss. Stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) favors surface segregation, providing additional driving force. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys influences surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, significantly shaped by the first 23 layers' atomic arrangement, critically affects catalytic activity in alloys, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation's role in catalytic alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These dynamics impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen, consistent across environments. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental results correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, highlighting the need to understand stability in reacting environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Pd segregates to the surface, creating a Pt concentration gradient from surface to bulk in PtPd nanoparticles. These nanoparticles exhibit Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd atoms preferring (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, develops from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shielding the alloy from corrosion. It enhances stability and catalytic properties for fuel cells. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, demonstrating the impact of structural dynamics on catalytic properties under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the ORR limits catalytic efficiency in PEM fuel cells, but Pt-based alloys with transition metals show enhanced activity due to surface segregation. A pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer of these alloys, boosting ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt, as observed by Stamenkovic et al. Au in PtAu alloys segregates thermodynamically favorably, evidenced by an exothermic process, whereas Co in PtCo alloys migrates to the second layer, making continuous segregation unlikely due to thermodynamic unfavorability and kinetic prohibition. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects and interlayer migration in the rearrangement process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces and delaying Pt atom dissolution under varying reaction conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, positively shifts potential, protecting against Pt dissolution. 3d metals modify electronic and geometric properties, altering adsorbate binding strength, which boosts catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation, facilitated by 3d metals, aids in the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing reaction rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties through changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This significantly impacts catalyst activity and selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition. Ensemble effects for deuterium and electronic interaction effects for CO and deuterium adsorption upon alloy formation are pivotal, underscoring the critical role of surface structure in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to develop alternative catalysts have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt for ORR, attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into a nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K. AES studies confirm the mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, emphasizing temperature's role in alloy composition and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration under varying thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: initial vacuum composition analysis followed by hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates preferentially attract alloy components they strongly bind to the surface. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between pure solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, the addition of third transition metals modifies Pt surface segregation. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it, affecting structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are stabilized by the Pt d-band, reducing Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in pure Pt. Pt2Ti skin alloys show that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as particularly stable at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OOH dissociation in OR activity. Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) profiles on Pt2Mo are similar to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are essential for ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results suggest changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting the activity and selectivity of the catalyst, as seen in the water-gas shift reaction. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The onset of bulk migration of Cu is explained by the results with adsorbed CO, and the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, where the stable CO-induced surface alloy forms and breaks up.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict enhanced ORR activity due to crystal plane effects on subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100).", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by reaction conditions, allow for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity by adjusting to the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen and oxygen. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving segregation. Oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate the stability, segregation, and structure of Pt-3d alloy bimetallic catalysts. Reductive conditions favor 3d TMs in subsurface layers due to surface energy and size, while oxidizing conditions promote surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, underscoring the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures exhibit high activity for hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of high-performance catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys exhibiting 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis necessitates controlled surface structural configurations and stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, linked to enhanced catalytic activity, has been a focal point in research. Studies often explore surface structures under vacuum, but adsorbates in operational environments can alter segregation trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is crucial for optimizing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys on Ru(0001) with Pt and Pd exhibit significant segregation post re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Lower Pd content may affect stability. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring larger guest metals like Pt and Pd due to tensile stress in the outer Ru layer. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30 contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56, possibly due to Pd content and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, affecting segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely resists segregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface migration to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These insights are pivotal for understanding bimetallic catalysts' catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions, verified experimentally, reveal that Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen but segregate with oxygen, demonstrating their stability varies under different conditions. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. These trends, observed in both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, predict subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, whereas surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in various environments, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa, impacting catalytic performance. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations, illustrating the complexity of bimetallic stability under reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd atoms segregate to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, enhances stability and catalytic properties in fuel cells by shielding the alloy from corrosion. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and solidify the protective layer. Ongoing research explores CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer for further insights into its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for understanding catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions, particularly in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to surface segregation, leading to a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer and enhanced stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable, while Co is typically unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. Surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation is crucial for Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have revealed the components of surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloy systems, and the segregation process involves interlayer migration of impurity atoms, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetics viewpoint.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces in Pt-3d alloys compared to pure Pt, especially in oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and enhancing catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation leading to a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. This transformation affects the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, highlighting the role of surface structure in influencing catalytic properties, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cheaper alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For example, the growth of Ag on a Pt(1 0 0) surface evolves with temperature, affecting catalytic performance. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures also facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, altering the catalyst's structure and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. NSA stability is assessed in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can influence surface components, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation is estimated by comparing energies. Deviations from idealized NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. Transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. This is governed by Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Substituting Ni with transition metals enhances Pt segregation, while noble metals prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution, but adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Ti skin alloys show that OTi bonding at surface vacancies is more stable than OPt bonding, due to O's anion-like nature. Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for activity. Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity, as lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high CO pressure and temperature, Cu is surprisingly pulled to the surface of CuPt alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm these observations, showing increased CO binding energy and weakening of the PtCO bond with more Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane variations significantly influence subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen exposure, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. These variations determine subsurface stability and catalytic performance, crucial for understanding the thermodynamic and kinetic preferences under different reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their increased surface complexity due to the presence of a second metal, exhibit superior catalytic properties over monometallics. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, and Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. The segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor impact, while strong ones, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, as per quote [1]. Oxidizing conditions, however, lead to 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands, as stated in quote [2]. Quote [3] reveals that Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity, summarized from quote [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, crucial for designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability decreases under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surface, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, impact catalytic performance. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine Fe-Pt surface configurations, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as Fe49Pt51 alloys exhibit 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding of structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly boosts catalytic activities, exemplified by enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has spurred extensive research. Studies have primarily focused on surface and subsurface structures under vacuum, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can influence segregation trends and surface composition. Therefore, understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for optimizing catalytic properties and performance, as evidenced by the Pt-skin structure's unique activity and reaction rate four times that of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show complete segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface layer after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd over Ru. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps, suggests a probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) display segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in catalytic alloys' initial layers significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation and atomic distribution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention on Pt clusters (Quote 1). CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (Quote 2). Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO (Quote 3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles (Quote 8). These factors significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen triggers 3d atom surface segregation. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt shows the greatest resistance, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, verified by correlating d-band center differences and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship, predict thermodynamic stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences emphasize the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures with optimal binding properties may halt reactions on surface structures. DFT and experiments consider stability with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. Subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements validate subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. AES results reveal two segregation regions, aligning DFT predictions with polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures exhibit higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111) configurations. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential, maintaining preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, which has direct implications for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed in 0.1 M HClO4 solution via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. The steady CV resulting from potential cycles indicates the formation of this protective layer. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, shedding new insights for electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, demonstrating the role of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Pt alloys with transition metals exhibit superior oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity compared to pure Pt, addressing its kinetic limitations in PEM fuel cells. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is pivotal for enhanced stability. Au demonstrates strong segregation in PtAu alloys, making the process thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co is unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces, with surface Co atoms tending to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely due to thermodynamic and kinetic barriers. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys, revealing that the segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process, observable in acidic solutions. The pathway from an impurity atom in the second layer to the Pt(111) surface is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo systems, according to the segregation model.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals in Pt(111) systems enhance surface stability, particularly under oxygen adsorption, by forming a protective Pt-skin layer. This leads to improved catalytic properties, including increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability, as the Pt-skin facilitates the removal of adsorbed species and delays the dissolution of Pt atoms to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects. This transformation changes adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition reveals significant impact of surface structure on adsorption properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, enhancing ORR activities, especially in Pt-3d metal alloys. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures, not just surface geometry. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. For instance, temperature dictates the growth of silver on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, forming 2D-adislands at room temperature and promoting AgPt exchange above 600 K, leading to nanophasic alloying confined to the surface layer. AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the critical role of reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes due to their unique hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. Stability is assessed in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency assessed by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, potentially assisting in selective hydrogenation reactions and hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping inhibits it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni determine the extent of Pt segregation, with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir doping enhancing it and Ag, Au, and Pd doping preventing it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution (Quote [1]). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface (Quote [2]). Pt2Ti skin alloys exhibit surface vacancies with OTi bonding, which are more stable than those with OPt bonding (Quote [6]). Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability (Quote [8]). Among various Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote [9]). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with the barrier to OOH dissociation being a key parameter for OR activity (Quote [10]). Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V) (Quote [14]). The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote [19]). Pt2Mo skin alloys with 30% Mo content achieve higher stability and activity than other compositions (Quote [20]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Bimetallics, with their enhanced surface complexity, where the second metal can be in various states and regions, are pivotal for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells typically exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, promoting 3d metal surface segregation. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface-subsurface interchange, whereas strong electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, driving surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, influencing catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is driven by strain release. Oxygen adsorption, not hydrogen, can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, contribute to structural dynamics, impacting catalytic performance. These findings are crucial for understanding real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [1]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. This phenomenon, linked to unusual catalytic activity, has sparked extensive research. While studies often concentrate on vacuum conditions, understanding segregation under surface adsorption is pivotal, as adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Investigating Pt-based alloys under these conditions is crucial for optimizing their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) via STM and AES revealed surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability is influenced by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring inclusion of larger guest metals in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied to understand floating behavior. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region can be estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over (100) steps in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core). Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends predict subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. General stability trends predict the same thermodynamically preferred configuration across environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys like PtPd. Simulation outcomes highlight Pd's tendency to segregate to the outer layers, creating a monotonic Pt concentration increase from surface to core, resulting in Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance across various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and solidify the protective layer. Ongoing research explores the layer's electrocatalytic behavior in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, electrocatalytic activity peaks at 50% Fe content, enhancing performance 25 times over pure Pt. This is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, crucial for designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to the exploration of Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, particularly the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, unlike Co, which is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to both thermodynamic unfavorability and kinetic prohibition. These insights highlight the importance of surface segregation for catalytic properties in Pt-based alloys, with Au's exothermic segregation contrasting Co's endothermic process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability and catalytic properties. The presence of 3d metals enhances the stability of Pt-skin surfaces, protecting against oxygen adsorption and improving electrochemical stability. This enhancement, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, leads to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution and facilitating the removal of adsorbed species, thus increasing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. Ensemble and electronic interactions change, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. CO and D adsorption demonstrate sensitivity to local structure and composition changes, highlighting the role of surface dynamics in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts physical and chemical properties, significantly altering catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role in this enhancement. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the modified electronic structure through surface segregation, not the geometric effect. Theoretical approaches and factors like temperature and the presence of adsorbates govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. For example, Ag adislands on a Pt(1 0 0) surface evolve with temperature: elongated 2D-adislands form at room temperature, and annealing above 600 K promotes alloying at the perimeter, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that these factors can influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory is utilized in developing NSAs for these processes. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, suitable for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface they bind strongly to. Hydrogen-induced surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation by lowering segregation energy, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it by increasing energy. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects from the doped element influence Pt segregation, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions can lower alloy stability compared to pure Pt. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo exhibits a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, enhancing OR activity. The stability and activity of Pt2Mo skin alloys are optimal at a 30% Mo content, achieving a balance that surpasses pure Pt and other alloys.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, opening new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting potential applications in a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, particularly in water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes' influence on oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems affects subsurface stability and catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, highlighting crystal plane effects on bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, featuring a second metal in various states, offer superior surface structural complexity and catalytic properties over monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region exhibit exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, offering opportunities to optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells show a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, alter binding energy significantly, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, segregation, and structure of Pt-3d alloy catalysts. Reductive conditions push 3d TMs into subsurface layers due to their surface energy and size, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation and formation of oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to its larger atomic radius, is common and tunable by gas treatments. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. In oxidative conditions, 3d metals oxidize, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Hydrogen presence does not affect the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases, contribute to surface structure oscillations, crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures exhibit high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as seen in Fe49Pt51 alloys. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit four times higher ORR rates, highlighting the role of surface segregation in activity improvements. Studying segregation under adsorbates is crucial, as they can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, affecting the surface geometry and electronic structure of the alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES confirmed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) after re-alloying, with nearly complete restoration of original composition, indicating strong segregation to the surface. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with observed Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) favors surface segregation. Floating behavior shows Pt and Pd can dissolve in the subsurface region during surface alloy formation, estimated by a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows that oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) displays antisegregation even in the presence of oxygen. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly affects catalytic activity, emphasizing the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility at high compositions favor its surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by density functional theory. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors critically affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    