Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to surface structures. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface configurations. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd is used to screen alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in different conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experiments show subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Linear trends in thermodynamic stability extend beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, creating a Pd-enriched shell, while Pt concentration increases monotonically from surface to core. Notably, Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, is a result of increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shielding the alloy from corrosion and enhancing its stability and catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. The steady CV after potential cycles indicates the formation of this protective layer, and ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "High-performance cathode electrocatalysts, crucial for polymer electrolyte fuel cells, see enhanced activity when Pt is alloyed with Fe, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the interatomic distance or surface roughness.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, leading to research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the exothermic pathway for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo, hindering continuous Co segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems alter surface adsorption, enhancing stability through the protective role of subsurface atoms, which also modify electronic and geometric properties, boosting catalytic performance. A Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the oxygen reduction reaction rate, while 3d metals delay Pt atom dissolution, indicating enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This affects CO and deuterium adsorption, demonstrating sensitivity to local structure and composition, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems, as theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For instance, at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. These structural dynamics under varying conditions affect the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs, or near-surface alloys, bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more efficiently, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, defying common rules. These NSAs exhibit high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed in two steps: considering vacuum composition and the effects of hydrogen adsorption. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, and hydrogen's tendency can be gauged by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may vary from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as confirmed by density functional theory calculations and experimental studies.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes negative Pt surface segregation, enhancing its surface concentration, while doping with Ag, Au, and Pd leads to positive segregation energies, preventing Pt from reaching the surface. This differential effect is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, influenced by lattice mismatch and heat of solution, compared to Pt3Ni. Consequently, the choice of dopant significantly impacts the structural dynamics and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. However, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are stabilized by the Pt d-band structure, reducing Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt atoms at vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. Pt2Ti skin alloys show that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated conditions, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This behavior is driven by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces with implications for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly impact subsurface 3d metal stability and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. DFT calculations predict oxygen-induced segregation and subsurface stability, with crystal planes affecting both aspects, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallics, with their second metal in various states, offer enhanced catalytic properties over monometallics. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallics under redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically stable under annealing in vacuum, surpassing NiPtPt(111). Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's binding energy influencing segregation. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, whereas strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs are highly active for CO oxidation via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common, driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation and are highly active in hydrogenation reactions. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of high-performance catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as Fe49Pt51 alloys with a 100% Pt topmost layer have 25 times the activity of pure Pt in such reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts enhances oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. This phenomenon significantly alters catalytic activities, as evidenced by Pt alloys with 3d metals showing improved ORR performance. Studying surface segregation under surface adsorption is crucial, as adsorbates can influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) reveal surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, influenced by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, show distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir shows antisegregation, even in the presence of oxygen. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underlining the importance of characterizing surface distribution in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability and performance, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature boosts Pt surface diffusion, notably on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory validates Pt's thermodynamic benefit in diffusing to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is impeded on 100% Au surfaces due to low Pt site ensemble probability, explaining the absence of oxidation on pure Au clusters.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions, confirmed experimentally, reveal that Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregate with oxygen. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship links DFT stability with experimental barriers for Pt3dPt systems. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the importance of understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability has been assessed with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with 0.5 ML O. AES results confirm segregation behavior and activation barriers for adsorbate-induced segregation. Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation with d-band center difference is applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have the same preferred configuration in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations preferred with 0.5 ML O.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems like PtPd nanoparticles. In these, Pd segregates to the surface, especially the (100) facets, while Pt enriches the core, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer enhances stability against corrosion, impacting the alloy's catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. The potential cycles result in increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, forming a protective layer. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer is ongoing to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity by 25 times at 50% Fe content, due to surface 5d-vacancy, not interatomic distance or roughness, highlighting structural dynamics' role under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for improved activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic performance. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit four times the ORR rate of pure Pt, highlighting the catalytic implications of surface segregation. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu, while Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces, demonstrating the varied effects of alloy composition on segregation tendencies. Modern techniques have elucidated these trends, revealing the critical role of surface defects and interlayer migration in the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions notably affect stability, surface segregation, and structure. Incorporating 3d metals enhances surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability, due to 3d subsurface atoms' protective effect, boosts catalytic properties, such as oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability, facilitating adsorbed species removal and improving performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature significantly alters the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transforming surface morphology and impacting adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects. Surface structure and composition are crucial for catalytic activity and selectivity, as probe molecule adsorption sensitivity highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop cheaper alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Notably, enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than just surface geometry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, forming elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that these factors influence the catalyst's structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show pronounced surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, boosting ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also enhances electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based NSAs, exhibit exceptional hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen weakly while efficiently dissociating H2, pivotal for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability and surface segregation can be evaluated through a two-step method, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates, like hydrogen, preferentially draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface, influencing segregation. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Improved nanofabrication techniques could enhance control over catalyst surface structures, maximizing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation due to more negative Pt surface segregation energies, while doping with Ag, Au, and Pd inhibits it due to positive energies. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure indicates that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A low Mo content (below 30%) provides higher stability at high potentials but not improving activity over Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings, confirmed by DFT calculations, suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The CuPt near-surface alloy, suggested as a promising water-gas shift catalyst due to reduced PtCO bonding, forms a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure at high CO pressures, which is more stable than Cu in the bulk.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes' influence on oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems affects subsurface stability, as predicted by DFT calculations. This impacts ORR activity, crucial for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic properties due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Reaction conditions dynamically alter surface structures, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity. This dynamic behavior is critical for tuning the performance of bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence Pt-based bimetallic catalysts' stability, segregation, and structure. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. This impacts catalytic properties; Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3], highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, depending on gas redox potential. These reversible structural changes have significant implications for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation and excel in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Pt-skin surfaces' unique catalytic properties are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. For oxygen reduction reactions, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe exhibit higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys being 25 times more active. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding their stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt underscore the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can modify surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying segregation under adsorbates is crucial for understanding the catalytic performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications, as shown by the unique activity of Pt-skin surfaces in ORR reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys showed almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer and slight Pt loss during re-alloying. Surface alloy stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with observed segregation trends. Size mismatches favor inclusion of Pt and Pd in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, revealed distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) at 500 K, contrasting with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution critically influences catalytic activity, highlighting segregation's impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature boosts Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in surfacing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts that Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. Experimental verification on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirms these predictions. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using DFT and experiments, correlating with d-band center values and kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT and experiments on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates. General stability trends predict preferred configurations in different environments, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Simulation results show Pd segregates to the outer layers and (100) facets, while Pt concentration increases towards the core of PtPd nanoparticles. These phenomena impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, primarily with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by Fe dissolution, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic properties in fuel cells. The protective layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, is a focus of ongoing research.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for understanding catalytic implications under varying conditions in Pt-based alloy systems, not by interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity through surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin that boosts stability. PtAu alloys show strong Au segregation, unlike PtCo alloys where Co atoms migrate to the second layer, hindering continuous Co segregation. Surface segregation significantly enhances catalytic properties, with Pt-skin surfaces demonstrating a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface components in Pt alloys, revealing the segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with thermodynamic and kinetic differences observed between PtAu and PtCo systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals improve surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces in both clean and oxygen-covered states. This stability enhancement, following the inverse order of oxygen adsorption strengths, underscores the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, boosting adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation aids in the removal of adsorbed species, accelerating the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys exhibit superior stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This transformation sensitively affects catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the importance of local structure and composition in probe molecule adsorption, particularly in chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of cost-effective Pt-based bimetallic alloys. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. The interlayer distance is correlated with the segregation energy, and the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces are due to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Under varying temperatures, the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, such as Pt-based alloys, change. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on a Pt(1 0 0) surface with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to nanophasic alloy formation confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating significant impacts on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt layer also improves electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Selected NSAs defy conventional norms by enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. This is ideal for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen separation and storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by attracting strongly bound alloy components. Despite deviations from ideal NSA models, main adsorbate behavior trends remain unaffected, suggesting practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. Transition metals like V, Fe, and Co promote Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111), whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Segregation extent is governed by surface energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with promoting metals enhances Pt segregation, while suppressing metals prevent Pt from reaching the surface, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. However, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is essential for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo showing a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The stability order at 1.05 V is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption drives the less reactive Cu component to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, where the stable CO-induced surface alloy forms and breaks up. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt alloys, crystal planes significantly impact the thermodynamics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation and subsurface metal stability, affecting ORR activity. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen, highlighting crystal plane effects on catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit enhanced surface complexity, with the second metal's state affecting catalytic properties. Pt-3d transition metal alloys show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential, similar to monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, reductive conditions like vacuum and CO push 3d TMs to the subsurface due to their higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions cause 3d TMs to segregate to the surface, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic affects catalytic properties; Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metals to the surface due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, significantly boosts catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt, directly linked to surface segregation. Adsorbates can alter segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces, where Pt segregates on the top layer, show reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt, underscoring the importance of studying segregation under surface adsorption for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with nearly restored original composition and slight Pt loss. Stability variance is attributed to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1), and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt: 0.277 nm, Pd: 0.275 nm) and Ru(0001) (0.270 nm) enhances surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through four preparation steps, indicates probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) at 500 K contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences, impacting stability and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution critically impacts catalytic activity, highlighting segregation's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, and DFT confirms Pt diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, explaining its absence on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic performance, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as DFT predicts and experiments confirm. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Surface and subsurface structures' stability can be quantified, guiding alloy selection. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surfaces, and vice versa. Stability trends apply to multiple atomic species and can be extended to complex adsorbates. DFT and experiments on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt align, showing subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results highlight Pd's tendency to segregate to the outer layers, creating a Pd-enriched shell and a Pt-enriched core in PtPd nanoparticles. This segregation pattern, with Pd favoring (100) facets over (111) facets, directly impacts catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, PtFe alloys develop a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer forms through the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shielding the alloy from corrosion and enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. The protective Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation, is a focus of ongoing research.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is pivotal for understanding catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to research on Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring Au's presence on the surface, while Co is typically unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces due to thermodynamic unfavorability and kinetic prohibition. Studies show that ORR activity is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt catalysts, highlighting the critical role of surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability and surface structure. The addition of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, improving oxygen reduction reaction rates and electrochemical stability. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective effect of 3d subsurface atoms, facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. Surface structure and composition impact adsorption, with ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption, highlighting the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts for catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, profoundly affects physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop cheaper alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Notably, enhanced ORR activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation, impacting the catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies indicate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can affect the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys show significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly while efficiently dissociating H2, making them crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing new NSAs, which can simultaneously allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. This is beneficial for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability can be assessed using a two-step procedure: considering composition in vacuum and then accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be reliably estimated by comparing specific energies. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of surface structure through improved nanofabrication techniques could optimize catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution from the doped element M impact Pt surface segregation energy. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals increases Pt segregation to the surface, while replacing it with suppressing metals prevents Pt surface segregation, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt2Mo, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which hinders surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Surface vacancies with OTi bonding in Pt2Ti skin alloys are more stable than those with OPt bonding, consistent with atomic O's anion-like behavior. Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials among Pt2M alloys. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, enhancing OR activity. The optimum Mo content in Pt2Mo is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high CO pressure and temperature, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increased Cu content. These findings open new avenues for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, oxygen-induced dynamics on different crystal planes affect subsurface 3d metal stability, influencing surface segregation and structural configuration. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity, demonstrating the critical role of crystal planes in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the significant impact of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on stability and structural configuration.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, particularly Pt-based alloys, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity, emphasizing the structure-environment-performance interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d metals doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in response to O2 and H2 contribute to surface structure and composition oscillations, significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals demonstrate higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various reaction atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activity, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), exceeding pure Pt performance. This phenomenon, closely linked to enhanced catalytic properties, has attracted significant research interest. Studies often concentrate on vacuum conditions, yet understanding surface segregation under actual reaction environments with adsorbates is paramount, as these can alter segregation trends and surface composition, directly affecting catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original surface alloy composition is restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer, except for a slight Pt loss. Stability variance is attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch favors impurity inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. Distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's preference for the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) display segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in catalytic alloys' initial layers significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention, as evidenced by its energetically favorable position atop Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, promoting the diffusion of Pt to the surface. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles forming, preventing O2 dissociation, a critical first step in the oxidation process. These factors have significant implications for the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregating to the surface with oxygen. DFT predictions, supported by experiments, reveal higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures compared to surface configurations. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with subsurface structures preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface structures favored with oxygen. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. Stability predictions extend to various atomic species and can be scaled to complex adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results show Pd atoms segregate to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. This configuration, with Pd atoms preferring certain facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacts catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific thermodynamic conditions, PtFe alloys form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion, improving its catalytic properties for fuel cells. Ongoing research on CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer aims to further elucidate its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, achieving a 25-fold increase at 50% Fe content, crucial for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, leading to extensive research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring thermodynamics, while Co's inability to enrich PtCo surfaces is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for catalytic properties. For instance, Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The segregation model interprets these phenomena, highlighting the exothermic process in PtAu and the endothermic process in PtCo systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Incorporating 3d metals enhances surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces more than pure Pt, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability is inversely proportional to oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting the reaction rate. The stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. Surface structure, particularly in Pt-based alloy systems, affects adsorption properties, demonstrating sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, notably alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. This enhanced activity is attributed to modified electronic structures, not just surface geometry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) forms elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy that spreads across the surface with uniform stoichiometry. AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting these factors impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals, while facilitating easier H2 dissociation, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as evidenced by modified catalytic activity in experimental studies.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir lower Pt segregation energy, promoting surface Pt concentration, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd increase segregation energy, inhibiting Pt surface presence. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects, influenced by lattice mismatch and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to Pt d-band stabilization, hindering surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms, however, facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Among various Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is a key parameter for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks the activity of Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting the activity and selectivity of the catalyst. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation in Pt systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface metal stability. DFT predicts stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting ORR activity, with crystal planes playing a critical role.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallics. Surface structures dynamically change under varying redox conditions, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity. This highlights the critical role of surface structure in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) subsurface structures are thermodynamically more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt-terminated surfaces in Pt3d alloys show a thermodynamic preference, impacting fuel cell applications. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences, while oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage, unlike weakly binding adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate the stability, segregation, and structure of Pt-3d alloy bimetallic catalysts. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, whereas oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This structural dynamics enhances catalytic properties, as seen in Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs, which exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces their top surface segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenation reactions. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe exhibit higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding stability under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), with Pt alloys outperforming pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces, formed by Pt segregating on the surface, exhibit reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt, demonstrating the critical role of surface segregation. Adsorbates significantly influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is crucial for a comprehensive understanding of their catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of Pd and Pt. Pt experiences slight loss during re-alloying. Stability disparities may be due to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers of Pt-based alloys significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalysts' stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in surfacing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. This was experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends were confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, with Δεd used to screen alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. For Pt3d systems, oxygen binding energy differences are significant. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. Stability was considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with oxygen. Experimental measurements verified subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantified activation barriers. AES results suggest two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show d-band center correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems like PtPd nanoparticles. Simulations show Pd segregation to the outer layers, creating Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases monotonically from surfaces to the core, leading to Pt-enriched interiors. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) in the shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, crucial for catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, essential for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt alloys with transition metals exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, addressing Pt's sluggish kinetics. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co, which has a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Modern studies have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, illustrating the importance of surface segregation for catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which also alter electronic and geometric properties, boosting catalytic performance. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from the alloys show superior stability compared to pure Pt, with implications for improved catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably annealing temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Annealing transforms surface morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects. Surface structure and composition greatly influence adsorption properties, as evidenced by STM observations. Probe molecule adsorption is sensitive to the local structure and composition, highlighting the critical role of surface structure in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a prime catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, is often replaced by cheaper metals in bimetallic alloys to find alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, impacting catalytic properties. For Pt-based systems, such as Ag on Pt(1 0 0), Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes nanophasic AgPt alloy formation confined to the surface layer, spreading across the surface with sufficient Ag to establish uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in catalyst stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), notably in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen chemistry, binding atomic hydrogen weakly while easily dissociating H2, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising selective hydrogenation reactions for pharmaceutical compounds and easier hydrogen separation and storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, as shown by experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, surface segregation of Pt is influenced by the addition of specific transition metals. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This behavior is determined by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects from the doped element, with lattice mismatch and heat of solution playing key roles. Replacing Ni with the enhancing metals strengthens Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability under electrochemical conditions due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). However, adsorbed oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote 2). Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its high stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction compared to Pt, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quotes 9, 10, 20). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, as lower contents may achieve higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher contents destabilize the alloy and reduce activity (Quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt, opening new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, supporting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes influence subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting oxygen-induced segregation. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. These catalysts, with their enhanced surface complexity and second metal in various states, outperform monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering opportunities to fine-tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, particularly Pt-based systems, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, and this effect is predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface-subsurface configuration, whereas strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions promote 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. This dynamic impacts catalytic properties; for instance, Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3], highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to atomic radius differences, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications such as oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, driven by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, significantly boosts catalytic activities. Pt-3d alloys show enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt, directly linked to surface segregation. Studying segregation under surface adsorption conditions is critical, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and catalytic properties, affecting the alloys' performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show complete segregation of buried Pd and Pt to the surface after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with Pt and Pd segregating due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps reveal floating behavior, and a Boltzmann approach estimates Pt (Pd) dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys. Surface segregation occurs in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core), with Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibiting antisegregation under oxygen. Atomic arrangement in the catalyst's surface layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like CO adsorption, influence bimetallic catalyst stability in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation in CO oxidation, explaining why oxidation doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of neighboring Pt sites, as confirmed by density functional theory. These factors significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental evidence confirm the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with hydrogen, but predict segregation with oxygen. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments, with empirical equations predicting thermodynamic stability. Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties of subsurface structures for reactions like dehydrogenation and ORR could halt reactions due to strong binding, while surface structures could prevent reactions by binding too weakly. AES results validate segregation behavior and activation barriers, bridging the gap between single crystal and polycrystalline substrates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, creating a monotonic Pt concentration gradient from surface to bulk, resulting in Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, with potential cycles enhancing Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement. This has significant implications for catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, with ongoing research focusing on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, with a 25-fold increase at 50% Fe content over pure Pt, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, directly addressing the question on bimetallic surface structures' catalytic implications under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Pt, a critical cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity attributed to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer, enhancing stability and catalytic performance. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co tends to migrate inward, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Modern studies have elucidated segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys, revealing critical processes like interlayer migration and vacancy movement, with Au segregation being exothermic and Co segregation endothermic.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance stability and protect against dissolution, particularly under adsorbate coverage, by inducing a positive potential shift. This modification of electronic and geometric properties leads to stronger adsorbate binding, boosting catalytic properties like increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation aids in the removal of adsorbed species, further enhancing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing induces structural changes in bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming from Pt islands to surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Probe molecule adsorption, such as D, CO, and D, is sensitive to local structure and composition, demonstrating the impact of alloy formation on electronic interactions and ensemble composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by cheaper metals, have been explored as alternative catalysts. Surface segregation notably modifies catalytic activities, as evidenced by enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt for ORR. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches, temperature, and the presence of adsorbates govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a surface-confined nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions impact catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys, exhibit thermodynamic stability and structural dynamics influenced by reaction conditions, particularly hydrogen adsorption. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more efficiently, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the pure solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, suggesting that precise control of metal catalyst surface structure could unlock the unique catalytic properties of NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence Pt surface segregation. Transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) promote Pt surface presence by reducing segregation energies, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping leads to positive segregation energies, inhibiting Pt surface segregation. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects determine Pt segregation in Pt3Ni/M surfaces. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, while substituting with Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent it, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, such as Pt-3d alloys, is significantly influenced by oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface (Quote 2). Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for achieving high activity and stability (Quote 8). Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt (Quote 9, 10). The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces, with Pt2Mo achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 17, 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes and oxygen exposure influence 3d metal segregation and subsurface stability, impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. DFT calculations predict these effects, highlighting the role of structural dynamics in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity. This dynamic behavior is similar to reversible processes observed in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) reside in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1], while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3], highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions, attributed to electronic structure modification by subsurface Fe. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show enhanced activity compared to pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys exhibiting 25 times greater activity in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly boosts catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has sparked extensive research. Studying surface segregation under surface adsorption is crucial, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and catalytic properties, impacting the alloys' performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt after re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. Preparation steps for floating behavior were studied, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's strongest adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core). Notably, Pt/Ir(core) displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    