Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom surface segregation, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd correlates with thermodynamic stability and kinetic barriers, predicting stability trends in various conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures with optimal binding may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT and experiments confirm subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary among Pt3dPt structures, with Pt3dPt(100) having higher barriers than Pt3dPt(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulations show Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the core, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has implications for catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, with ongoing studies focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity for polymer electrolyte fuel cells, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, as per recent studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, leading to the exploration of Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for catalytic properties. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au surface segregation, unlike PtCo alloys where Co is unable to enrich the surface. Au's exothermic segregation process indicates thermodynamic favorability, whereas Co's tendency to migrate to the second layer makes continuous segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process is critical for understanding the enhanced catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by a four times higher ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems alter surface adsorption properties, enhancing stability in clean and oxygen-covered Pt-skin surfaces due to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. This leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic activity. Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt, highlighting the importance of alloy composition in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) into PtRu surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects upon alloy formation. This impacts catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, crucial for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Alternative catalysts, focusing on Pt-based bimetallic alloys with less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt-3d metal alloys. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., where the ORR on Pt-skin surfaces of annealed Pt3Co alloys is four times more active than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length. For Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the surface bond length deviation after Pt segregation is minimal, indicating that the electronic structure, not geometry, is the main factor for enhanced ORR activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. A case in point is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy that spreads across the surface. This process highlights how thermodynamic factors influence catalyst structure, impacting their catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers. NSAs demonstrate high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for the production of chiral pharmaceuticals and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed through a two-step procedure: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, Pt surface segregation is enhanced by transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, and suppressed by Ag, Au, and Pd. The extent of segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Promoting transition metals strengthen Pt segregation, while suppressing metals prevent it, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms, however, facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in the clean state. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OR activity. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for both high activity and stability. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, the less reactive Cu in CuPt near-surface alloys segregates to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for enhancing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR are significant for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. These catalysts, featuring the second metal in various states and locations, exhibit enhanced surface complexity and catalytic properties. Notably, Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface demonstrate superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to monometallic catalysts under redox conditions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, particularly Pt-based systems, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic impacts catalytic properties; Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to its larger atomic radius. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, forming oxides that encapsulate Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions depend on gas redox potential, crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts, with Pt-skin structures, exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions. The enhanced catalytic properties are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalysis relationships, aiding in the design of high-performance catalysts. Evidence from Fe49Pt51 alloys shows higher activity in oxygen reduction reactions than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Prior research has largely focused on vacuum conditions, but studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their catalytic performance, as surface segregation is closely related to activity improvement, as observed in Pt-skin surfaces with four times the reaction rate of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) show significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps reveal floating behavior, with distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen's strongest adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atom arrangement in the initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, emphasizing the importance of understanding segregation effects on surface structure in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like CO adsorption, influence bimetallic catalyst stability and configuration, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, due to thermodynamic favorability. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, explaining its absence on pure Au surfaces. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic performance, remaining stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and confirmed experimentally. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is the most susceptible. DFT and experimental studies on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt reveal higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. Δεd can screen alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Oxygen binding energy differences of hundreds of kcal/mol suggest surface structures may halt reactions if subsurface structures have optimal binding properties, or prevent reactions if surface structures are optimal. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. AES shows two segregation regions, aligning DFT predictions with polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential, maintaining a general stability trend across environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Simulations on PtPd nanoparticles reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, and Pt concentration gradients with Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms exhibit a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle surface, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific thermodynamic conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties. This process, initially studied for fuel cell applications, leads to the formation of a Pt skin layer that is being further investigated for its electrocatalytic behavior in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity 25-fold at 50% Fe content, attributed to surface 5d-vacancies, significant for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity compared to pure Pt, due to surface segregation. This process leads to the formation of a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer, enhancing stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable, as evidenced by an exothermic process (0.57 eV). Conversely, Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces, as surface Co atoms tend to migrate to the second layer, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive, due to an endothermic process (0.45 eV) and a higher energy barrier for migration. Surface segregation plays a critical role in the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys, as Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have been employed to understand surface segregation trends in Pt alloy systems, revealing the components of surface and subsurface regions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces under oxygen adsorption. This stability, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, boosts catalytic properties, including increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further enhancing the ORR rate, while 3d metals modify electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This highlights the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, emphasizing the role of surface structure in bimetallic catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the ORR in fuel cells, is often replaced by less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys, enhancing ORR activities, especially when alloyed with 3d metals. Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that the ORR on Pt-skin structures of Pt3Co alloys showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributing the enhancement to modified electronic structures through surface segregation rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, particularly temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) forms elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. At elevated temperatures, AES studies indicate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, suggesting that reaction conditions can influence structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys demonstrate Pt surface segregation, forming a monolayer that reduces O and OH binding strength, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, which is crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations predict new NSAs for these processes, with selected NSAs allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers. The stability of NSAs can be assessed using a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from idealized NSA structures quantitatively affect adsorbate properties but do not alter main trends. Experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs confirm modified catalytic activity in line with theoretical predictions, suggesting that precise control of metal catalyst surface structure may be achieved through improved nanofabrication techniques, potentially leading to highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures and easier hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The degree of Pt segregation is governed by relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with promoting transition metals boosts Pt segregation, while doping with suppressing metals can prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, emphasizing the need for zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for optimal performance. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote 2). Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo is distinguished by its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt (Quote 9). The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving a balance of stability and activity. A lower Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but does not improve activity over Pt at 0.9 V, while a higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal plane, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, especially ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are pivotal for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based alloys show exceptional catalytic properties. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) shows greater stability than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Surface composition is dictated by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen's binding energy influencing segregation. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, while adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect. Strong adsorbates like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with 3d TMs favoring subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size, and segregating to the surface under oxidizing conditions to form oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces enriched with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, underscoring the structure-environment-catalytic activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions [1,2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has sparked extensive research. While studies often concentrate on vacuum conditions, real reaction environments with adsorbates significantly influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Understanding surface segregation under adsorbates is thus crucial for optimizing Pt-based alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) reveal significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with near-complete restoration of the original alloy composition. Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies (Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111)) and size mismatch between guest (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) metals. The floating behavior during preparation steps suggests a higher likelihood of surface segregation due to tensile stress in the outermost Ru layer. Distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show segregation, whereas Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation, even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of surface distribution and segregation's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties, especially in Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion for CO binding is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites, is inhibited on 100% Au surfaces due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles, as seen in PtAu clusters before CO exposure.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt lowest, to oxygen-induced segregation. Activation barriers for Pt3dPt(100) are higher than Pt3dPt(111) under oxygen. Δεd predicts stability in various environments, correlating with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations forecast thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability trends predict subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulations show Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the core in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, is created by Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shielding the alloy from corrosion and enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Further research is exploring the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not changes in Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, highlighting the role of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells has led to the exploration of Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic efficiency. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to kinetic and thermodynamic barriers. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, as observed by Stamenkovic et al. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process and can be observed in acidic solutions. The segregation model interprets these phenomena, highlighting the exothermic process for Au and endothermic for Co in Pt-based systems, indicating the thermodynamic and kinetic prohibitions for Co segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties and stability, especially in oxygen-covered conditions. This enhancement, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with oxygen adsorption strength and modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving catalytic performance. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates adsorbate removal, increasing reaction rates, and delaying Pt atom dissolution, positively impacting electrochemical stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) into PtRu surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This affects catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, crucial for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic properties. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is essential for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys demonstrate a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, underscoring the role of surface electronic structure and bond length in catalytic efficiency. Theoretical approaches and environmental factors, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation, directly affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on Pt(1 0 0). Annealing above 600 K leads to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface, spreading across it with sufficient Ag. Temperature-dependent AES studies show mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions affect catalyst stability and structure, influencing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show pronounced surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also improves electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as per the quote.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, weakly binding atomic hydrogen like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations assist in developing new NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects, while adsorbates can influence surface composition by drawing alloy components to the surface. The tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may vary from ideal models, but this doesn't significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution determine the extent of Pt segregation. The doped element's surface energy effect, strain effect, and heat of solution effect collectively influence Pt surface segregation energy, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a low Mo content (below 30%) achieving higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. This bonding of adsorbates can alter local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. DFT predictions under oxygen exposure reveal plane-specific subsurface stability, crucial for understanding ORR activity and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. These catalysts feature enhanced surface complexity, with the second metal in various states, pivotal for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity based on redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys, like Pt3d, often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt-terminated surface. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in modifying surface configurations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, whereas oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, underscoring the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation onto the top surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability can diminish under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in applications such as oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly enhances oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, as observed in Pt-skin structures with four times the reaction rate. Adsorbates under operating environments can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, underscoring the importance of studying segregation trends under adsorption for Pt-based alloys, as catalytic properties are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES found that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys regained their original composition, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer, though Pt experienced slight loss. Stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) substrate favors surface segregation by stressing the outer Ru layer.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, affecting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in catalytic alloys' initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt (>17% Au) favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to migrate to the surface for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions, confirmed experimentally, reveal that Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen adsorption causes 3d atoms to segregate to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. These trends, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predict subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. The stability trend applies to other bimetallic systems, with the difference in d-band center used to screen alloys for stability. Understanding these structures' stability in reacting environments is crucial due to the large differences in binding energies, impacting catalytic properties according to Sabatier's principle.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, leading to Pd segregation to the surface and Pt concentration towards the core in PtPd nanoparticles. This forms Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd atoms preferring (100) facets over (111) facets on the shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, in situ electrochemical STM reveals that the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This process is critical for understanding electrode materials in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on its electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-Fe bimetallic catalysts, electrocatalytic activity peaks at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening. This highlights significant catalytic implications, despite limited literature on thermodynamic influences on stability and structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, leading to the exploration of Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring the segregation process, while Co is unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt catalysts, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloy systems, characterizing surface and subsurface regions, and interpreting the phenomena from a kinetics perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals improve surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, especially in oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals enhances catalytic performance by altering electronic and geometric properties, increasing ORR rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting the ORR rate, and the stability of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interaction effects, which significantly impacts catalytic activity and selectivity. This highlights the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, emphasizing the role of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, alters physical and chemical properties, notably impacting catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have concentrated on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some Pt. Surface segregation in Pt alloys with 3d metals boosts ORR activities, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s observation that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, exemplified by the Ag-Pt system. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Upon annealing above 600 K, these adislands alloy extensively, forming a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, as evidenced in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit weak hydrogen binding, similar to noble metals, yet efficiently dissociate H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is critical for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed through a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, facilitating selective hydrogenation reactions and potentially simplifying hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The degree of Pt segregation, influenced by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni, impacts stability, structure, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys' stability under electrochemical conditions is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is key for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Surface vacancies allow for stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds, with OTi bonding in Pt2Ti skin alloys being more stable. Pt2Mo is stable at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content offers higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated conditions, CO adsorption unexpectedly drives the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is attributed to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. The findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The CuPt near-surface alloy's potential as a water-gas shift catalyst is due to reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt surface with Cu in the second layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, supporting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane and oxygen exposure influence subsurface 3d metal stability, impacting surface segregation and structural configuration. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen, with crystal planes affecting ORR activity, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with greater surface complexity, outperform monometallic counterparts. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates' Pauling electronegativity affects surface configuration changes, with strong electronegativity leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity [3], highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, significantly boosts catalytic activities under varying conditions. Enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt underscore the role of surface segregation. A four-fold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces exemplifies this effect. Studying surface segregation under surface adsorption, typical in catalytic reactions, is crucial for understanding the catalytic properties and performance of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES found that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show almost complete surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "DFT studies on Pt-based alloys reveal oxygen's preference for bridge sites over (100) steps, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation, even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers of catalysts significantly impacts catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and performance. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain on the surface of Pt clusters (1). CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (2,3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, which is unlikely on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles forming (4,5,6,7,8). These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. Experimental verification on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirms these predictions and quantifies kinetic barriers for segregation. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, verified by DFT and experiments, suggest Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with oxygen. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. Linear trends show d-band center correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts. Notably, PtPd nanoparticles exhibit Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd atoms preferentially segregating to the (100) facets over (111) facets on the surface, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, primarily with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, induced by Fe dissolution, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic properties for fuel cells. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, solidifying the protective layer. Ongoing research explores the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, as indicated by a small peak at 0.71 V, which shows the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process and its subsequent disappearance, confirming the protective role of the Pt skin layer.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is pivotal for designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts for polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, driving research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on alloy surfaces, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit favorable Au segregation, contrasting Co's inability to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favored, unlike Co, which migrates to the second layer, hindering continuous segregation. Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys, revealing the importance of surface segregation for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) enhances surface adsorption properties and stability, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. This modification leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting the ORR rate, and stabilizes Pt-skin surfaces, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to a surface alloy, altering adsorption properties due to ensemble and electronic interaction effects. This changes adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru, significantly impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. The transformation highlights the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, crucial for understanding catalytic properties in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, altering properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, such as temperature, significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to the formation of nanophasic AgPt alloys confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Reaction conditions can influence catalyst properties and performance in various applications, as indicated by AES studies showing Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, especially in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding, akin to noble metals, yet efficiently dissociate H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is critical for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs uniquely permitting weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers. This lowers the transition-state energy even on non-ideal surfaces, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs confirm modified catalytic activity, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The degree of Pt segregation is governed by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is critical for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Low Mo content (below 30%) may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, affecting subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT predictions show 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, crucial for ORR activity. Crystal plane effects are key to understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts due to surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, influenced by redox potential, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3], underscoring the structure-environment-activity interplay [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, depending on the redox potential of gases. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, as evidenced by enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces, resulting from surface segregation, exhibit reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface composition in catalytic performance. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, affecting the stability and efficiency of Pt-based catalysts in real-world conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES on PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) revealed significant surface segregation post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, with near-complete restoration of original composition and slight Pt loss. Stability differences are linked to lower Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) substrate promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps including deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying, can be estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, causing segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core). Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen. Surface atomic distribution, especially in the initial layers, significantly affects catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial; without sufficient Pt sites, CO oxidation is inhibited, highlighting the importance of surface configuration for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic performance, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. DFT predictions, supported by experiments, indicate stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregation occurs with oxygen, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt exhibits the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. Sabatier's principle suggests that optimal binding properties in subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments, crucial for predicting bimetallic configurations' thermodynamic preferences in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulations show Pd segregates to the surface, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the core, creating Pt-enriched interiors in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms exhibit a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "In 0.1 M HClO4 solution, Fe dissolution in a PtFe alloy triggers the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic performance in fuel cells. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughness, making it ideal for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, featuring Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity through surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin, boosting stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation on Pt-skin surfaces quadruples the ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process, involving interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo, crucial for optimizing bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. The presence of 3d metals enhances surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces, which is evident in both clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the oxygen reduction reaction rate. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys exhibit enhanced stability compared to pure Pt, delaying Pt atom dissolution and improving electrochemical stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition, even for active metals like Ru and Pt, underscores the role of thermodynamics and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems, influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Under varying conditions, Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, like Pt-3d alloys, exhibit changes in stability and structure. At room temperature, elongated Ag adislands form on Pt(1 0 0). Annealing above 600 K transforms these into a nanophasic alloy covering the surface. Higher temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, altering the alloy's composition and structure, which impacts catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit strong surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying conditions, impacting catalytic performance. NSAs bind hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs defy conventional rules by allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen storage. NSA stability is assessed in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energies.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by its surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M vs. Pt3Ni crystals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, with zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo enhances stability at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo showing a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OR activity. Pt2Mo is the only alloy showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. A 30% Mo content in Pt2Mo is optimal for achieving the best balance of stability and activity, with lower Mo content offering higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, and higher Mo content destabilizing the alloy and reducing activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen's effect on 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, determines subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations reveal this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting ORR activity, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface, exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions cause 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs are highly active for CO oxidation, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt to relieve strain, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial for catalytic processes in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, especially in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts demonstrate high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation, attributed to subsurface Fe modifying surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys 25 times more active. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to activity improvement, is crucial under varying reaction conditions and adsorbates, affecting surface composition and thus catalytic properties. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is essential for optimizing catalytic efficiency in applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies show that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys undergo surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with near-complete restoration of the original alloy composition, except for a slight Pt loss. The stability of these alloys is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing in the order Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to lower Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory shows oxygen adsorption at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution critically affects catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy favors its surface retention on Pt clusters, while CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, showing desirable configurations in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with subsurface structures preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface structures favored with oxygen. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions, and Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT and experimental results on single crystals apply to polycrystalline substrates, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in Pt3dPt(100) structures compared to Pt3dPt(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulations on PtPd nanoparticles reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, and Pt-enriched cores. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, primarily with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-Fe alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability and catalytic properties. Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to surface properties rather than interatomic distance or roughness.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, driving research into Pt alloys with transition metals for improved ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is critical, enhancing stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces, due to its tendency to migrate to the second layer, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies confirm that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. The exothermic process of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process for Co, illustrating the role of thermodynamics in surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption properties, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt. This stability, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, is due to the protective effect of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals improves electronic and geometric properties, boosting catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further enhancing reaction rates. Despite adsorbates' influence, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in electronic interactions. This impacts the catalyst's activity and selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface, thus affecting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, profoundly impacts materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties such as catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cheaper alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where the catalytic properties, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures of Pt3Co alloys is four times more active than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of modified electronic structures through surface segregation for enhanced catalytic activities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the formation of elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 on a Pt(1 0 0) surface at room temperature, which upon annealing above 600 K, transforms into a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that these factors can influence catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys show pronounced surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also improves electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, with NSAs showing unique hydrogen binding, akin to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, vital for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in NSA development for these applications. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from ideal NSA models affect quantitative properties but do not alter main adsorbate behavior trends. Future advancements in nanofabrication techniques could enhance control over metal catalyst surface structure, benefiting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, third transition metals modify Pt surface segregation, influenced by Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Promoting elements (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) enhance Pt segregation, whereas suppressing elements (Ag, Au, Pd) can prevent it. Doping with promoting elements strengthens Pt segregation, while suppressing elements entirely prevent it, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, like 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than on the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for oxygen reduction activity. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are essential for facilitating the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, rationalizing it through the increased PtCO bond strength. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for enhancing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. DFT calculations predict stability in Pt surfaces under oxygen, with crystal plane effects critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, due to their increased surface structural complexity, outperform monometallic catalysts in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering the opportunity to tune catalytic activity and selectivity under varying redox conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, and Pt3d alloys in fuel cells prefer Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with 3d TMs favoring subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs are highly active for CO oxidation via a bi-functional mechanism [3], highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals' surface segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, are crucial for catalytic processes in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts show high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe demonstrate higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys showing 25 times the activity of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, significantly boosts catalytic activities. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities over pure Pt, highlighting segregation's role. Adsorbates under operational conditions can alter surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is crucial, as evidenced by a quadrupled ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces versus pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys show that surface segregation of Pd and Pt occurs after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with the original composition restored, indicating complete segregation. A slight loss of Pt is observed during re-alloying. Surface alloy stability is influenced by Pd content, which is lower than Pt's 70%. Surface segregation preference is related to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps, suggests a probability for Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "DFT reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic arrangement significantly influences catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation effects in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention and atop position on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, confirmed by density functional theory. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites, explaining its absence on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, impacting catalytic properties in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    