Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations in oxygen. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability predictions extend to complex adsorbates. DFT and experimental results on single crystals apply to polycrystalline substrates. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends in stability correlate with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers, increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, influencing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Under specific conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer forms due to increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement at the surface, shielding the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This protective mechanism has implications for the alloy's catalytic performance in fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for understanding the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation process contrasts with Co's endothermic process, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation's role is evident in the four times higher ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process in acidic solutions and can be interpreted from a kinetics viewpoint.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. The introduction of 3d metals into Pt(111) alters surface adsorption properties, mainly attributed to the direct involvement of 3d metals on or beneath the surface. Pt-skin surfaces of Pt-3d alloys exhibit enhanced stability compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, following the opposite order of oxygen adsorption strengths, indicates the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, impacts the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes affect catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. It notably modifies catalytic activities, crucial for Pt, an efficient catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some Pt. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced by appropriate structures. Enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals, like Pt3Co, are observed, with surface segregation playing a key role. Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic AgPt alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, suggesting that reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structural dynamics and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. The stability of NSAs can be assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage, requiring precise control of surface structure for optimal catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects, influenced by the doped element M. Stronger Pt segregation is observed when Ni is replaced with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, whereas Pt segregation is prohibited when Ni is replaced with Ag, Au, and Pd.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt2Mo, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Pt atoms at surface vacancies bond more strongly with O atoms, facilitating Pt removal. Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potentials (1.05 V), with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) and a key barrier for OOH dissociation. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitating the reaction. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the thermodynamic stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, influencing ORR activity. These factors determine catalytic properties and performance in applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals in the subsurface region. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, offering opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, segregation, and structure. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size (Quote 1). Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands (Quote 2). These changes affect catalytic properties, as Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity (Quote 3). The interplay between structure, environment, and activity is critical for alloy catalyst performance (Quote 4).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Surface structural configurations transform under varying conditions, affecting catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires precise surface structural configuration design and stability information at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities under varying reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. The Pt-skin structure, produced by Pt segregating on the surface, uniquely boosts ORR activity, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Adsorbates under operating environments can influence surface segregation trends and modify surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is crucial for understanding Pt-based alloys' catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability of these alloys is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch between guest (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) metals. The floating behavior, observed through a series of preparation steps, suggests that Pt and Pd are more likely to segregate to the surface layer due to the tensile stress in the outermost Ru layer. The distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site on (211) surfaces of Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface structure in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in binding CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics impact catalytic properties and performance in applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in different conditions is crucial for their catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. This is verified experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) systems and expanded to polycrystalline Pt to assess kinetic barriers for segregation. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. The stability trend is confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantify activation barriers. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) has higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations in oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulation results reveal that Pd segregates to the outer layers, increasing Pt concentration from surface to core, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Notably, Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell. These phenomena have direct implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, PtFe alloys form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for the catalytic properties of PtFe alloys in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not solely to interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt is a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, but its ORR kinetics limit efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have shown enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring Au segregation, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces, as it migrates to the second layer more readily. Pt-skin surfaces, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation trends have been identified for many Pt alloy systems, with the dissolution of metal atoms critical to the rearrangement process. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is well interpreted by a kinetic model. For PtAu, segregation is exothermic, whereas for PtCo, it is endothermic, making Co segregation to the clean Pt(111) surface both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys. 3d metals modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing Pt-skin surface stability and catalytic performance. This stability enhancement, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, follows the opposite order of oxygen adsorption strengths, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, leading to improved catalytic properties like increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Despite adsorbates affecting catalyst stability, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between metallic constituents. Surface structure affects adsorption properties, influenced by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interactions for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces is demonstrated, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt, highlighting the importance of surface structure in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, affects properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to find alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. These alloys, especially when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activities due to surface segregation. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic properties. Studying Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces reveals that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands form with a specific Ag-Pt composition. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions significantly affect bimetallic catalysts' structural dynamics and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing catalytic activity for oxygen reduction. These Pt-skin surfaces also demonstrate improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "NSAs, including Pt-based alloys, exhibit unique hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. The stability of NSAs can be evaluated by considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to attract alloy components they bind strongly to, and hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Despite deviations from ideal NSA models, main adsorbate behavior trends remain unaffected, with some experimental studies showing modified catalytic activity on non-ideal NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects from the doped element M influence Pt segregation energy. Pt segregation extent is determined by relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals strengthens Pt surface segregation, while substituting with Ag, Au, and Pd prevents it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, stability is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is critical for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Surface vacancies expose less coordinated Pt atoms with more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms at the surface vacancy can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Surface vacancies in Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Atomic O on metals is anion-like, preferring ionic-bond formation. Pt alloys are less stable than pure Pt under electrochemical conditions at the same oxygen coverage. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation barrier as a key kinetic parameter for OR activity. The stability of clean alloy surfaces is inferred from the Pt d-band structure, showing that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band. Only Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar reaction profile as on Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Low Mo content (below 30%) may achieve higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals is influenced by crystal plane, affecting subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with crystal plane impacting ORR activity, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, outperform monometallic catalysts in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This redox dependence offers the potential to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, particularly PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity for hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in the design of high-performance catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on the Pt(111) surface, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, have implications for catalytic performance in various applications. Fe-Pt structures with Fe in the subsurface region show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different reaction atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the phenomenon's importance. Surface segregation closely relates to activity improvement, as evidenced by Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys showing four times the ORR rate of pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence these trends and change surface composition, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to lower Pd content, 2D distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, influenced by segregation, critically affects catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These insights affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental verifications highlight the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but predict 3d atom segregation to the surface with adsorbed oxygen. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. The stability trend, verified on single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in various environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface configurations are favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements confirm segregation behavior and activation barriers, bridging the materials gap from single crystal to polycrystalline substrates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulation results indicate Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk. PtPd nanoparticles exhibit Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd atoms favoring (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer is formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shielding the alloy from corrosion. Its stability and catalytic implications are crucial for fuel cell applications, with ongoing studies focusing on its electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties. Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics in PEM fuel cells is improved by Pt-based alloys, which exhibit enhanced activity due to surface segregation. Pt-skin formation on alloy surfaces boosts stability and catalytic efficiency. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co migration to the surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation significantly impacts ORR activity, with Pt-skin surfaces showing a fourfold increase in reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. This stability enhancement, observed under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation impacts the composition of adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are crucial. Surface structure and composition, observable by STM, greatly influence adsorption properties. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, impacts materials science and surface chemistry, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved with appropriate structures. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, where at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands form with a specific composition. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of the Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions can influence the structural dynamics and stability of bimetallic catalysts, which in turn affects their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics under varying reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory calculations, which predict catalytic behavior. Select NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in two steps: composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation is estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from models, but this doesn't significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Elements promoting Pt segregation lead to stronger surface concentration, whereas those suppressing it can prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms exposed at surface vacancies can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Surface vacancies in Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Atomic O on metals is anion-like, preferring ionic-bond formation. Pt alloys under electrochemical conditions have lower stability than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a good element for alloying with Pt to form a stable surface at high potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation. The stability hierarchy is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo exhibiting higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The oxygen reduction reaction on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the oxygen reduction reaction on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Low Mo content (e.g., Pt5Mo) may have higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (e.g., PtMo) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity, with the second metal present in various states, crucial for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamically changes during reactions, influenced by redox potential, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates whether admetals migrate to the surface or remain subsurface, affecting surface composition. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface/subsurface interchange, while strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, forming oxides that encapsulate Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes in Pt-based catalysts are crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the relationship between structure and catalytic properties, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different reaction atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities under varying reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can influence these trends and change surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. This research is essential for understanding and optimizing the performance of Pt-based catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating strong surface segregation of Pd and Pt. Slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. Surface alloy stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences, favoring Pt and Pd segregation, and size mismatch between guest and host metals. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied for their impact on surface morphology and structure. The probability of Pt/Pd dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) suggests effects of Pd content, 2D component distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic distribution, crucial for catalytic activity, is significantly influenced by segregation, affecting the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of Pt ensembles. These insights are pivotal for understanding catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces surface segregation. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions, revealing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, verified by DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, show the importance of Δεd in screening bimetallic alloys. The correlation between thermodynamic stability and kinetic barriers is established through a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, showing general stability trends for bimetallic systems in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulation outcomes reveal that Pd segregates to the outer layers, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Interestingly, Pd atoms preferentially segregate to the (100) facets over (111) facets in the nanoparticle shell, which has direct implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed through increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer is ongoing to enhance understanding of its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells is improved by Pt-based alloys, which exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation. This process leads to a pure Pt-skin on the alloy surface, enhancing stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, while Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co, which is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Extensive studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective. The exothermic nature of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process for Co, affecting the likelihood of continuous segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals modify surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both clean and under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure and composition, observable by STM, influence adsorption properties, with ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Annealing-induced changes in surface morphology lead to altered CO and deuterium adsorption, demonstrating sensitivity to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts physical and chemical properties and dramatically alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Alternative catalysts, focusing on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, have shown enhanced ORR activities, especially when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR on Pt-skin structures of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studying the growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface reveals that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form. Upon annealing above 600 K, AgPt exchange occurs, leading to the formation of a nanophasic alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. AES studies show that Ag mixes with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures. These findings highlight how thermodynamic factors and reaction conditions can influence the structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces in these alloys show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding, weakly attaching atomic hydrogen like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models exist but do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of surface structure is essential for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, suggesting advancements in nanofabrication techniques are imminent.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas replacing it with suppressing metals prevents Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for achieving high activity and stability (Quote 8). Among various Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as an ideal element for alloying with Pt, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier towards OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity (Quote 10). The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic catalysts in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This redox dependence offers a means to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are crucial for catalytic processes in Pt-based bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces, attributed to electronic structure modification by subsurface Fe, enhance adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times greater activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt-3d alloys exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, closely linked to surface segregation. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption, common in catalytic reactions, is critical for understanding and optimizing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was restored, indicating surface segregation of Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability differences may be due to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy compared to Pt (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2) and their immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic favorability to surface migrate for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to low Pt site ensemble probability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic performance. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. These predictions, verified experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, show PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, confirmed by DFT and experiments, allows quantification of surface and subsurface bimetallic structures' relative stability. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability has been considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantify activation barriers. AES results suggest two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. The trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange Pt at the surface, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for the catalytic properties and performance of the alloy in fuel cell applications, with ongoing research focusing on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times more active than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the interatomic distance or surface roughening. This finding is crucial for designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts for polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Pt, a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limits due to slow oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) kinetics. Recent studies highlight enhanced ORR activity in Pt-based alloys, attributed to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface migration, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. The exothermic process in PtAu contrasts with the endothermic process in PtCo, indicating Co's kinetic and thermodynamic barriers to surface segregation. Surface segregation, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling reaction rates compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys, revealing critical roles of metal dissolution and interlayer migration in the segregation process. The model explains these phenomena, particularly from a kinetic perspective, confirming the unfavorable and prohibitive nature of Co's segregation to the Pt(111) surface.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance. Adsorbates like oxygen can impact stability, but Pt-skin surfaces from alloys still exhibit enhanced stability relative to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure affects adsorption properties, explained by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for active metals like Ru and Pt, influencing catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, significantly influences catalytic properties due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface or sub-surface layers, impacts physical and chemical properties, notably altering catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have concentrated on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by chemical composition, enhancing catalytic effects. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a four-fold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind this phenomenon, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, impacting catalytic performance. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can alter the structural dynamics and stability of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), especially those in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. NSAs can bind atomic hydrogen weakly while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. This behavior is assessed through a two-step stability procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by the energy difference in hydrogen binding between solute and host. Non-ideal NSA structures may deviate from models but do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is essential for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, with advancements in nanofabrication techniques promising improved NSA development. NSAs offer potential for selective hydrogenation reactions and hydrogen separation and storage, benefiting pharmaceutical compound production.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Doping with transition metals modifies Pt segregation energy on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects collectively impact Pt segregation. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by relative energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with promoting metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas replacing with Ag, Au, and Pd prevents it, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt under the same oxygen coverage, emphasizing the importance of zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for optimal activity and stability. Alloying with Mo, as in Pt2Mo, enhances stability and lowers the kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OR activity. The stability of clean alloy surfaces is inferred from the Pt d-band structure, indicating that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Surface vacancies in Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding, aligning with the anion-like behavior of atomic O on metals. Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potentials, following the stability order: Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with OOH dissociation as a key kinetic parameter. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Contrary to expectations, CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open up new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest that molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes can be a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with implications for ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalysts' catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, outperform monometallic counterparts in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions. This redox dependence offers a means to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions [1,2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4]. Surface transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. The stability of these structures under different atmospheres is crucial for optimizing performance in magnetism and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has attracted extensive research. Studies often focus on surface and subsurface structures under vacuum, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur in environments with adsorbates that can influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Thus, understanding segregation under surface adsorption is critical for Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface, albeit with some Pt loss. The stability variance may stem from Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt's (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies, decreasing from Ru(0001) to Pd(111), align with Pt and Pd's segregation tendency. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region can be estimated. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, component distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution in the surface layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors influence catalytic performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for their catalytic properties. DFT predictions and experimental evidence on Pt3dPt(111) systems confirm that these structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Δεd values can screen alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in various conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and Pt concentration increasing towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, is underway.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the enhancement of Pt's electrocatalytic activity by alloying with Fe, achieving a 25-fold increase at 50% Fe content, crucial for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the alloy surface, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. found that ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process in acidic solutions. The segregation model interprets these phenomena from a kinetics perspective, highlighting the exothermic process for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, follows the opposite order of oxygen adsorption strengths. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can lead to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and enhanced electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure affects adsorption properties, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts physical and chemical properties, significantly altering catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to replace Pt with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., who found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures, not just surface geometry, indicating that surface segregation is a primary factor in improving catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, impacting their catalytic properties. In Pt-based systems, such as Pt-3d alloys, temperature affects the structure of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, leading to the formation of elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures also facilitate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, suggesting that reaction conditions can alter the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. The stability of NSAs is evaluated in a two-step process, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation of alloy components they strongly bind to. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be estimated by comparing the solute's segregation energy to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is essential for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, potentially through advanced nanofabrication techniques. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This effect is determined by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, influenced by the doped element. Replacing Ni with promoting metals strengthens Pt segregation, while substituting with suppressing metals prevents Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, such as Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, and maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms exposed at the surface vacancy can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Surface vacancies in Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Atomic O on metals is anion-like, preferring ionic-bond formation. Pt alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt under electrochemical conditions, but Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability at high potentials (1.05 V). Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation barrier as a key kinetic parameter for OR activity. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar reaction profile as on Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A low Mo content may achieve higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content will destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes influence the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based catalysts, affecting subsurface stability and ORR activity. DFT calculations predict subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with crystal planes impacting ORR performance. This highlights the role of structural dynamics in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, including the presence of the second metal in various states, are critical for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred in Pt3d alloys. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak electronegativity have a minor effect, while strong ones, like oxygen, can significantly alter surface configurations at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d transition metals under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This dynamic affects catalytic properties, as Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, depending on gas redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability can decrease under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in various applications. Fe-Pt structures with Fe in subsurface regions show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys having 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding of structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal in catalysis, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Studies show that the unusual catalytic activity is closely tied to surface segregation, with Pt-skin surfaces exhibiting four times the reaction rate of pure Pt. The trend under surface adsorption, common in catalytic reactions, is critical for understanding the catalytic properties and performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was restored, indicating surface segregation of Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability differences may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, including deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory (DFT) studies reveal that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co systems. Notably, Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's surface layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favoring Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in different conditions is crucial for their catalytic performance. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. This was experimentally confirmed on Pt3dPt(111) systems and polycrystalline Pt, revealing activation barriers for segregation. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends were verified through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, with Δεd used to screen alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability was considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Experimental measurements verified segregation and activation barriers. AES results show two segregation regions, bridging the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal that Pd segregates to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing towards the core. Notably, Pd prefers to segregate to the (100) facets over (111) facets, influencing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Pt-3d alloys like PtFe exhibit a thermodynamically preferred formation of a Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This process, triggered by Fe dissolution, leads to a protective Pt layer that shields the alloy from corrosion. The protective layer has significant implications for the catalytic properties of PtFe alloys in fuel cell applications, as it enhances stability and performance. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, demonstrating the influence of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting the exploration of Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial, as Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation to the surface indicates thermodynamic favorability, contrasting with Co's tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the enhanced stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. This stability enhancement, observed under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased ORR rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming surface morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Changes in surface structure and composition lead to ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts, even for active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by less expensive metals. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems. Surface segregation is influenced by temperature and the presence of adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic performance. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, suggesting that reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structural dynamics and stability, impacting its catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also demonstrate improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) uniquely bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory, offering weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, which is a significant exception. Even on non-ideal NSAs, the transition-state energy is lowered, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen-induced segregation is estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Doping Pt3Ni with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Stronger Pt segregation is observed with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping can prevent Pt surface segregation entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is significantly influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for achieving both high activity and stability. The stabilization of the Pt d-band through alloying makes surface Pt atoms more resistant to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable and active alloy at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a critical role in facilitating the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a low Mo content (below 30%) offering higher stability at high potentials but not necessarily better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by the crystal plane, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties over monometallics. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This redox dependence offers a means to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces affect catalytic properties in various applications, including oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. Reaction conditions and adsorbates can alter surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studies under operating environments are crucial for understanding segregation trends and optimizing Pt-based alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability and segregation are influenced by surface energies, decreasing in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), and size mismatch, favoring inclusion of Pt and Pd in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, affect the floating behavior and probability of subsurface dissolution, estimated by a Boltzmann approach. The distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site on Pt-based alloy surfaces, influencing segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co. Notably, Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, significantly affected by the first 23 layers' arrangement, is crucial for catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing atomic distribution in Pt alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    