Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures, critical for catalytic properties, is stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen but promotes 3d atom surface segregation with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using Δεd, correlating with thermodynamic stability and kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions, highlighting the importance of understanding structures in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen, confirmed by experimental measurements on single and polycrystalline Pt. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary among Pt3dPt structures, with Pt3dPt(100) having higher barriers than Pt3dPt(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation outcomes reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers, with Pt concentration increasing towards the core, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, influencing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This has implications for catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, with ongoing studies focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the importance of designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting the exploration of Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial, as seen in PtAu alloys where Au shows strong segregation, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation process indicates thermodynamic favorability, whereas Co's tendency to migrate to the second layer makes continuous segregation unlikely, being both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the enhanced catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces have a four times higher ORR rate than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems alter surface adsorption properties, with stability enhancement observed in clean and oxygen-covered Pt-skin surfaces. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, enhancing catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further improving catalytic activity. The presence of adsorbates affects catalyst stability, yet Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Alternative catalysts, focusing on Pt-based bimetallic alloys with less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly in Pt-3d metal alloys. Surface segregation plays a crucial role, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., where the ORR on Pt-skin surfaces of annealed Pt3Co alloys is four times more active than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length. For Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the surface bond length deviation after Pt segregation is minimal, indicating that the electronic structure, not geometry, is the main factor for enhanced ORR activities. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, where elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy that spreads across the surface. This alloying process and temperature-dependent mixing of Ag with bulk Pt highlight the influence of thermodynamic factors on catalyst structure and, consequently, their catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys show a strong Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these processes, with selected NSAs allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers. NSAs exhibit high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. Hydrogen's surface segregation tendency is estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, the addition of transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, enhancing stability and catalytic properties. Conversely, doping with Ag, Au, and Pd suppresses Pt segregation. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, while substituting with suppressing metals prevents it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in the clean state. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OR activity. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for both high activity and stability. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, the less reactive Cu in CuPt near-surface alloys segregates to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for enhancing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, affecting ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR are significant for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with the second metal in various states and locations, offer enhanced surface complexity and catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to monometallic catalysts under redox conditions, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions, particularly in Pt-based systems, is critical as it influences catalytic properties. Annealing reveals that subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen affecting segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate stability, surface segregation, and structure. Under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO), 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic impacts catalytic properties; for example, Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, forming oxides that encapsulate Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, depending on gas redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions due to Pt-skin structures. The electronic structure of surface Pt, modified by subsurface Fe, enhances catalytic properties. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalysis relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Surface structural configurations transform under varying conditions, affecting catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as evidenced by Fe49Pt51 alloys. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding structural stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Prior research has largely focused on vacuum conditions, but studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their catalytic performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were monitored to understand the floating behavior. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atom arrangement in the initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects on surface structure in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces. These dynamics influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is crucial for catalytic performance, being stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as DFT predicts and experiments confirm. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt reveal higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. Δεd can screen alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Oxygen binding energy differences of hundreds of kcal/mol suggest surface structures may halt reactions if subsurface structures have optimal binding properties, or prevent reactions if surface structures are optimal. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation in oxygen and quantify activation barriers. AES shows two segregation regions, aligning DFT predictions with polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential, maintaining a general stability trend across environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulations reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and Pt concentration gradients in PtPd nanoparticles, with Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle surface, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific thermodynamic conditions, a Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, creating a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion. This process, initially investigated for fuel cell applications, enhances the alloy's catalytic properties. Further studies on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer are underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is explained by the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening. This finding is significant for designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts for polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity compared to pure Pt, due to surface segregation. This process leads to the formation of a pure Pt-skin on the outermost layer, enhancing stability. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces, as surface Co atoms tend to migrate to the second layer, making Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation plays a critical role in the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have been employed to understand surface segregation trends in Pt alloy systems, revealing the components of surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process involves interlayer migration of impurity atoms, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the pathway from the second layer to the surface being exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals significantly alter surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting the ORR rate, while the presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, altering adsorbate binding strength.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure modifications affect adsorption properties, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a critical role, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., where the ORR on Pt-skin structures of Pt3Co alloys showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind this phenomenon, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studies on Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) reveal that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands form with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. AES studies indicate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can influence the structural dynamics and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit strong Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen as weakly as noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations predict new NSAs for these processes, with selected NSAs allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers. The stability of NSAs is assessed in a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from idealized NSA structures quantitatively affect adsorbate properties but do not alter main trends. Experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs confirm modified catalytic activity in line with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote stronger Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt surface segregation is determined by relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with promoting transition metals enhances Pt segregation, whereas doping with suppressing transition metals can prohibit it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is significantly affected by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, highlighting the importance of maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for optimal activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure reveals that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is a critical factor for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. A lower Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but does not improve activity over Pt at 0.9 V, while a higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal plane, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region show exceptional catalytic properties. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This dynamic nature offers opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys for fuel cells. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions like vacuum and CO, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity through a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions [1,2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4]. Pt-skin stability can decrease under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation-reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in various applications. Preparation methods and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers, leading to different Fe-Pt surface configurations. For oxygen reduction reactions, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal in catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in unusual catalytic activity has spurred research. Studies often focus on vacuum conditions, but adsorbates in real reaction environments significantly impact segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Thus, understanding segregation under adsorbates is crucial for Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit significant surface segregation after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with almost complete restoration of the original alloy composition, indicating strong segregation of Pd and Pt to the surface. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability of surface alloys is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies (Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111)) and size mismatch between guest (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) metals. The floating behavior, observed through a series of preparation steps, suggests that Pt and Pd are more likely to segregate to the surface due to the tensile stress in the outermost Ru layer. The distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation, even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, underscoring the importance of characterizing surface distribution and understanding segregation's role.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 J/m2 vs Pt's 2.48 J/m2) and immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is inhibited on 100% Au surfaces due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles, as seen in PtAu clusters before CO exposure.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures, critical for catalytic properties, is stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen but segregates with oxygen, as predicted by DFT and verified experimentally. PtNiPt is most resistant, PtTiPt most susceptible, to oxygen-induced segregation. DFT and experimental methods quantify activation barriers, revealing higher barriers for Pt3dPt(100) than Pt3dPt(111) under oxygen. Δεd predicts bimetallic alloy stability in various environments, correlating with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability trends predict subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, with predominantly (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further research is exploring the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to changes in Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) limits catalytic efficiency in PEM fuel cells, prompting extensive research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces due to kinetic and thermodynamic barriers. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt, as observed by Stamenkovic et al. Modern experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process and can be observed in acidic solutions. The segregation model interprets these phenomena, highlighting the exothermic process for Au and endothermic for Co in Pt-based systems, indicating the thermodynamic and kinetic prohibitions for Co segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and leading to improved catalytic properties, such as enhanced oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes affect catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are crucial. The surface structure and composition significantly influence adsorption properties, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is crucial for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by less expensive metals, show enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface electronic structure and bond length in catalytic efficiency. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studies on Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) reveal that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form. Upon annealing above 600 K, extensive alloying occurs at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies indicate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can affect the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, impacting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing new NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation is estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may vary from ideal models, but this doesn't significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. The surface energy effect, strain effect, and heat of solution effect, induced by the doped element, collectively influence Pt surface segregation energy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. This is because Pt atoms at surface vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms exposed at the surface vacancy can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The stability of Pt alloys under electrochemical conditions is lower than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, emphasizing the importance of zero oxygen coverage at working potentials. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a low Mo content (below 30%) achieving higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. The bonding of adsorbates can alter local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes affect the subsurface stability of 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. DFT calculations predict the stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen exposure, revealing the crystal plane's effect on ORR activity. These factors influence surface segregation and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity, with the second metal present in various states, critical for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to monometallic catalysts, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity based on redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d transition metals (TMs) under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the critical interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability can diminish under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, induced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation. Preparation methods and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers, influencing surface structural configurations. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal in catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It alters physical and chemical properties, significantly enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in activity improvement, as seen in Pt-skin structures, has prompted extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, adsorbates under operating environments can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, underscoring the importance of understanding segregation trends under adsorption for Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys was almost fully restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability variance may stem from the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) substrate favors surface segregation by stressing the outer Ru layer.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atom arrangement in the initial layers of catalytic alloys significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's impact on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy compared to Pt (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2) and their immiscibility at Au compositions >17% favor Au's surface retention when deposited on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, notably on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to surface migrate for CO binding. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is the initial step, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for their catalytic performance. DFT predictions, confirmed experimentally, show these structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen adsorption causes 3d atoms to segregate to the surface. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. This trend is applicable to other bimetallic systems, with the difference in d-band center used to screen alloys for stability. Understanding these structures' stability in reacting environments is essential due to the large differences in binding energies, impacting catalytic properties according to Sabatier's principle.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results indicate Pd segregation to the surface and increasing Pt concentration towards the core, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange Pt at the surface, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This process, crucial for understanding electrode materials in fuel cells, is under further investigation for its electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening. Literature on thermodynamic influences on stability and structural configuration is limited, but the example of Pt-Fe alloys highlights significant catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, while Co is unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. Au's segregation from the second layer to the surface is exothermic, indicating thermodynamic favorability. Conversely, Co atoms in PtCo alloys have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloy systems, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The dissolution of metal atoms creates defects critical for surface rearrangement, observed in acidic solutions. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the segregation model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetics perspective. Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, particularly in Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with the oxygen adsorption strength in the alloys. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and enhancing catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This affects the catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation are key factors. The study highlights the importance of surface structure in influencing adsorption properties and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have concentrated on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some Pt. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced by modifying their chemical composition. Surface segregation, especially in Pt alloys with 3d metals, boosts ORR activities. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and bond length of alloy systems. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For instance, the growth of Ag on a Pt(1 0 0) surface demonstrates this influence. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 form. Upon annealing above 600 K, extensive alloying occurs at the perimeter of the Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, indicating that reaction conditions can affect the structural dynamics and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also display improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. A two-step procedure assesses NSA stability, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, aiding in selective hydrogenation reactions and potentially easing hydrogen separation and storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, the addition of transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes stronger Pt surface segregation, while doping with Ag, Au, and Pd suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by the surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. This impacts the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, influencing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, especially under electrochemical conditions, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, and maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Surface vacancies allow for stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds, and in Pt2Ti skin alloys, OTi bonding is more stable than OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. The findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The CuPt near-surface alloy's promise as a water-gas shift catalyst is due to reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt surface with Cu in the second layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These results add to the potential of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal plane and oxygen exposure influence subsurface 3d metal stability, affecting surface segregation and structural configuration. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen, with crystal planes impacting ORR activity, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic properties over monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region show exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics during reactions, influenced by redox potential changes, offer opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates' Pauling electronegativity affects the thermodynamic potential for surface configuration changes, with strong electronegativity leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. This dynamic affects catalytic properties, as Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity [3]. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is pivotal [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, such as PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability can decrease under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces impact catalytic performance in various applications. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities under varying reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Studies show that the unusual catalytic activity is closely related to surface segregation, as demonstrated by a four-fold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces. The trend of surface segregation under surface adsorption, typical in catalytic reactions, is critical for understanding the catalytic properties and performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with a slight Pt loss. The stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory (DFT) studies reveal that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems exhibit surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its surface retention on Pt clusters (1). CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters (2,3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, which is unlikely on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure (4,5,6,7,8). These factors impact catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in varying conditions is crucial for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and expanded to polycrystalline Pt to assess kinetic barriers for segregation. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantify activation barriers. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. Linear trends show d-band center correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. PtPd nanoparticles exhibit Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd atoms segregating to the (100) facets over (111) facets on the surface, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, induced by Fe dissolution, protects the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, solidifying the protective layer. Ongoing research explores the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not interatomic distance or surface roughening. This finding is significant for designing high-performance cathode electrocatalysts for polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on alloy surfaces, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit favorable Au segregation, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favored, unlike Co, which migrates to the second layer, hindering continuous segregation. Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys. Surface defects and rearrangement processes are critical, especially in acidic solutions. The segregation model explains these phenomena, with exothermic Au and endothermic Co segregation processes. Co's segregation to clean Pt(111) surfaces is both thermodynamically and kinetically unfavorable.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. The introduction of 3d metals into Pt(111) alters surface adsorption properties, with stability enhancement observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which bind strongly to the Pt surface layer. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, leading to enhanced catalytic properties such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces delays the dissolution of Pt atoms to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms morphology from isolated Pt islands to a PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloy, significantly altering adsorption properties. This transformation, influenced by ensemble and electronic interaction effects, changes the composition of adsorption ensembles and the electronic interactions between Pt and Ru upon alloy formation. These changes have substantial implications for the catalytic activity and selectivity of the surface, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly influences materials science and surface chemistry, affecting properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. Stamenkovic et al. demonstrated that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, where elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to nanophasic AgPt alloy formation confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions can influence catalyst properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs uniquely permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, lowering the transition-state energy even on non-ideal surfaces. NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: vacuum composition analysis and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs confirm modified catalytic activity, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir strengthens Pt segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, and maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure stabilizes upon alloying, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Surface Pt atoms at vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms exposed at the surface vacancy can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The stability of surfaces follows the order Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo exhibiting higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar reaction profile as on Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitating the reaction. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Low Mo content (below 30%) may offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties in various applications, including water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes influence the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, affecting subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with implications for ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their surface structural complexity, outperform monometallic counterparts due to the presence of a second metal in various states. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, offering tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, depending on the redox potential of gases. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures can degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces affect catalytic properties in various applications. Preparation procedures and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is pivotal for catalysis, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight this. Surface segregation closely relates to activity improvement, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can modify surface composition and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit significant surface segregation after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with nearly complete restoration of the original composition. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability differences may stem from the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow the order Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and the Ru(0001) substrate promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region can be estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution significantly impacts catalytic activity, especially in the first 23 layers, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor Au's surface retention, as per quote [1]. CO adsorption at room temperature (quote [2]) promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory (quote [3]) confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial (quote [8]). Without sufficient Pt sites, CO oxidation is inhibited, highlighting the importance of surface configuration for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is pivotal for catalytic performance. DFT predictions, confirmed experimentally, show these structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregate with oxygen, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability in different environments. Understanding these dynamics is crucial for predicting bimetallic configurations' thermodynamic preferences in catalytic applications.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations reveal Pd segregation to the surface and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is underway.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening, according to literature on high-performance cathode electrocatalysts for polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Pt is a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, yet its slow ORR kinetics limit efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have shown enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin on the surface, enhancing stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Extensive studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with PtAu showing exothermic behavior and PtCo being endothermic. This understanding is crucial for optimizing bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys. The introduction of 3d metals alters surface adsorption properties, with direct involvement on the surface or subsurface enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces. This stability enhancement, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, follows the opposite order of oxygen adsorption strengths, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, altering adsorbate binding strength, which can enhance catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure affects adsorption properties, influenced by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition is demonstrated, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt, highlighting the role of thermodynamics and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Under varying reaction conditions, the stability and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, affecting the alloy's composition and structure. These changes have implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit strong Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying conditions, impacting catalytic performance. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind hydrogen weakly like noble metals but dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs defy conventional rules by allowing weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen storage. NSA stability is assessed in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution in Pt3M versus Pt3Ni crystals. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote stronger Pt segregation to the surface, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent Pt from segregating.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys' stability is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Surface vacancies with OTi bonding in Pt2Ti skin alloys are more stable than those with OPt bonding, consistent with atomic O's anion-like behavior. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as enhancing stability at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with crystal planes impacting ORR activity. These factors influence surface segregation and structural configuration, crucial for catalytic properties and performance in applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic counterparts, especially when Pt-skin surfaces are combined with 3d transition metals in the subsurface region. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, specifically PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural dynamics are crucial for catalytic processes in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties are attributed to subsurface Fe modifying surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts. The Pt-skin structure's stability can be reduced under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surface by oxidation-reduction cycles affect catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Fe-Pt structures with Fe in subsurface regions show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is critical for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in activity improvement, especially under adsorbates, highlights its importance for understanding catalytic properties and performance. Studying Pt alloys under surface adsorption is essential for optimizing their catalytic efficiency in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with nearly complete restoration of the original alloy composition. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability differences may be attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to lower Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, inducing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's surface layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics impact catalytic properties and performance in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic applications, showing desirable configurations in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with subsurface structures preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface structures favored with oxygen. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures could halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT and experimental results on single crystals apply to polycrystalline substrates, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in Pt3dPt(100) structures compared to Pt3dPt(111).", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and Pt concentration changes in PtPd nanoparticles, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under specific conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, with predominantly (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, protects the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. For instance, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial, enhancing stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces, due to its tendency to migrate to the second layer. This makes Co segregation both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies confirm that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective. The exothermic process of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process for Co, further illustrating the role of thermodynamics in surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly alter surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. This stability enhancement, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, leading to improved catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate. Despite the influence of adsorbates on stability, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This affects the activity and selectivity of the catalyst, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the local structure and composition of the bimetallic surface. The study reveals that surface structure and composition significantly influence adsorption properties, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cheaper alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals show enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures of Pt3Co alloys is four times more active than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, not just surface geometry. Theoretical approaches help understand the driving force of surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. For instance, the growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of the Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that these factors can influence catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Deviations from ideal NSA models, while affecting quantitative properties, do not alter main adsorbate behavior trends. Experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs confirm modified catalytic activity, aligning with theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys like Pt3Ni (111), the addition of third transition metals modifies Pt surface segregation. Elements like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. This is determined by the Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. Doping with promoting elements strengthens Pt segregation, whereas doping with suppressing elements can prevent it entirely.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for high activity and stability. The stabilization of the Pt d-band by alloying makes surface Pt atoms more resistant to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are crucial for facilitating the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation, rationalizing it through the increased PtCO bond strength. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for enhancing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, affects subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are critical for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic properties over monometallic counterparts. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals show exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for certain Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) prefer subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals' surface segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in Pt-based systems, influenced by redox potential, are crucial for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures elucidates structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations, influenced by preparation and reaction conditions, affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under various conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance in various applications, as evidenced by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on a Pt-skin surface compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is restored, indicating surface segregation of Pd and Pt. Slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. Surface alloy stability varies with Pd content, lower than Pt's 70%. Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through preparation steps, suggests a probability for Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, inducing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's surface layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its surface retention on Pt. Immiscibility at high Au compositions keeps Au atop Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These factors impact catalytic properties and performance in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    