Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists, PtTiPt succumbs to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd and BEP relationships quantify stability trends, with empirical equations predicting stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations with oxygen, verified experimentally, bridging the materials gap. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential, maintaining general stability trends.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the outer layers, creating a gradient Pt concentration, with Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in a PtFe alloy leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, as evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak after potential cycles. Ongoing research is exploring the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation, providing new insights for electrode material study in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface. This is pivotal for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells, unaffected by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt's role in PEM fuel cells is limited by slow ORR kinetics, but Pt-based alloys with transition metals exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, making Au surface segregation thermodynamically favorable. Conversely, Co is unlikely to continuously segregate in PtCo alloys, as it is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation boosts catalytic properties, with Pt-skin surfaces showing a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. Studies using experimental and computational techniques have characterized segregation trends and surface components in Pt alloy systems, revealing critical processes like interlayer migration and vacancy movement, which are essential for understanding the stability and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. 3d metals bolster surface adsorption and stability, particularly under oxygen-covered conditions, acting as a protective layer against dissolution. This stability enhancement is inversely proportional to oxygen adsorption strength, underscoring the protective role of subsurface 3d atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, enhancing adsorbate binding strength, which in turn improves catalytic performance, exemplified by an increased ORR rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further enhancing the ORR rate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. This highlights the crucial role of surface structure in influencing catalytic properties, as demonstrated in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop cheaper alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Enhanced ORR activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For example, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, influenced by theoretical approaches, temperature, and the presence of adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into nanophasic alloys upon high-temperature annealing, confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads evenly, achieving uniform stoichiometry. High-temperature studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt, indicating that thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and surface segregation, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit weak hydrogen binding akin to noble metals, yet efficiently dissociate H2, enhancing their role in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Exceptional NSAs enable low H2 dissociation barriers and weak hydrogen binding, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed through a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energies between solute and host. Deviations from ideal NSA models quantitatively impact catalytic properties but do not alter main adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it, influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution. Promoting metals strengthen Pt segregation, affecting stability and catalytic properties under varying conditions, while suppressing metals prevent segregation, impacting performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which hinders surface Pt atom segregation (Quote [1]). Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies (Quote [2]). Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt (Quote [9]). The optimal balance of stability and activity is achieved in Pt2Mo, with a 30% Mo content being ideal (Quote [20]).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly influence subsurface 3d metal stability under oxygen exposure, affecting surface segregation and structural dynamics. DFT calculations predict enhanced stability and ORR activity, highlighting the role of thermodynamics and reaction conditions in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d metals in Pt alloys show super catalytic activities. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity based on redox potential, as observed in reversible processes of monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Pt-terminated surfaces in Pt3d alloys show thermodynamic preference, with subsurface PtNiPt(111) structures being more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Hydrogen influences subsurface admetal segregation, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, promoting surface segregation at high coverage, as observed in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs prefer subsurface layers in Pt-based catalysts due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure and reaction environment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metal segregation, whereas hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to electronic structure modifications by subsurface Fe, affecting surface species adsorption and reaction. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to enhanced catalytic activity, has been extensively studied. Notably, the ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces is four times higher than on pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface segregation. However, catalytic reactions like the ORR occur in environments with adsorbates that can alter segregation trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Therefore, understanding surface segregation under adsorbates is crucial for optimizing the catalytic performance of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original alloy composition was restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer. Stability variance is attributed to Pd (44%) versus Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch, favoring Pt and Pd inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, are critical. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorption on Pt-based alloys prefers the bridge site over the (100) step, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co, while Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution in the first layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting its importance in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic Pt-based catalysts' stability and structure are influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Pt's diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, impacting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Activation barriers for Pt3dPt(100) are higher than Pt3dPt(111) for oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd screens bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, surface MPtPt(111) with 0.5 ML O. Experimental results confirm segregation and activation barriers, bridging the materials gap from single crystal to polycrystalline substrates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "In PtPd bimetallic catalysts, Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe bimetallic catalysts, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, enhances stability and shields the alloy from corrosion, significantly impacting catalytic properties in fuel cells. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and form a protective layer, crucial for electrocatalysis. Ongoing research focuses on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-Fe alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, affecting catalytic properties. Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not by Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin, boosts stability and catalytic performance. PtAu exhibits favorable Au segregation, unlike PtCo, where Co migration to the surface is inhibited. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces quadruple ORR activity. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing critical surface defects and rearrangement processes. The segregation model explains the exothermic Au and endothermic Co migration, confirming Co's thermodynamic and kinetic segregation barriers.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly boost surface stability and catalytic properties by modifying adsorption characteristics. This enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, improves oxygen reduction reaction rates and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the ORR rate, and the stability of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys still show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt, demonstrating the positive impact of 3d metals on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, impacting adsorption properties and catalytic activity. This transformation, influenced by changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions, highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysis, affecting catalytic selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic properties. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is essential for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities due to surface segregation, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al., where Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The primary factor for enhanced activities is the modified electronic structure through surface segregation, not the surface geometry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, such as temperature, significantly influence the stability, structure, and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing. Elevated temperatures facilitate Ag mixing with bulk Pt, demonstrating thermodynamic effects on catalyst structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structural dynamics under varying reaction conditions, influenced by thermodynamic preferences. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions, a crucial characteristic for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory calculations, which predict catalytic activity. Stability can be assessed using a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, particularly if they strongly bind to alloy components. A reliable estimate of hydrogen's tendency to cause segregation can be made by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt3d alloys, surface segregation of Pt is enhanced by V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, and suppressed by Ag, Au, and Pd, significantly impacting stability and catalytic properties under diverse reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. However, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, and OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces with implications for catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen exposure and crystal planes affect subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, influencing catalyst behavior. DFT calculations predict changes in subsurface stability and ORR activity, highlighting crystal plane effects.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as thermodynamically superior to surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's effect modulated by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, 3d transition metals under reductive conditions favor subsurface positions due to surface energy and size, while oxidizing conditions promote surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic influences catalytic properties; for instance, Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d metals exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure and reaction environment.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes under varying redox potential of environmental gases, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring Pt due to its larger atomic radius, is driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides, significantly impacting catalytic processes. These reversible structure changes are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly influences catalytic activities, with enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. For instance, the ORR was uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface of Pt3Co, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is vital for understanding the catalytic performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt occurs post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability variance is linked to Pd (44%) vs. Pt (70%) content. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, favoring Pt and Pd segregation due to lower surface energies. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied, with a Boltzmann approach estimating Pt/Pd dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed, impacting catalytic activity. Surface structure, crucial for catalytic performance, is affected by the first 23 layers and segregation phenomena in alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, while CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to surface-diffuse and bind CO. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation, unlikely on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to low Pt site ensemble probability. These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance in Pt-based bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, with oxygen inducing 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd can screen alloys for stability in various environments, correlating with thermodynamic stability and kinetic barriers. Subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. Linear trends correlate stability with d-band center differences, predicting preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates in the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys triggers the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by enhanced Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, boosting its catalytic performance in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior through CO adsorption and oxidation studies, shedding light on its role in enhancing fuel cell efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25x higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells, not interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Pt, a critical cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, incorporating Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity, attributed to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co, which struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co segregation is both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation notably boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Modern studies have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in Pt alloys, revealing the segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, interpreted kinetically by models.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, particularly in oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is due to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlating with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength, oxygen reduction reaction rate, and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates adsorbate removal, increasing reaction rate. Stability enhancement is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions, which significantly impacts catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure and composition, as observed, influence adsorption properties, demonstrating probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure, even for active metals like Ru and Pt, underlining the importance of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions in bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly alters physical and chemical properties, enhancing catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in various reactions, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by cheaper metals, show enhanced ORR activities, especially when alloyed with 3d metals. This enhancement is attributed to surface segregation, as Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, demonstrating the critical role of surface segregation in ORR activity enhancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, affecting catalytic properties. For instance, temperature-dependent growth of Ag on Pt(1 0 0) forms 2D-adislands at room temperature and spreads as a nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K. AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting how reaction conditions alter structural dynamics and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit weak hydrogen binding akin to noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, pivotal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed through a two-step process: analyzing composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to attract alloy components they bind strongly to, and hydrogen's propensity to induce surface segregation can be gauged by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Select NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising enhanced hydrogenation activity at lower temperatures, advantageous for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and potentially simplifying hydrogen separation and storage. Real NSAs may vary from ideal models, but such deviations do not markedly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and nanoparticle fabrication technologies suggest practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off, crucial for precise control of metal catalyst surface structure to fully benefit from NSAs' unique catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact stability, surface segregation, and structure. Transition metals (V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, Ir) enhance Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. Pt segregation is determined by its energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with transition metals boosts Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd counteract this effect.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which hinders surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation being a key parameter for OR activity. Only Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at high potential (1.05 V). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations reveal crystal plane effects on stability and ORR activity, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with complex surface structures, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals show superior performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity under varying redox conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) structures exhibit greater stability than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces in Pt3d alloys are thermodynamically favored. Hydrogen's effect on surface segregation is governed by binding energies, while oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, prompting 3d metals to migrate to the surface. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, notably oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage, as evidenced in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect bimetallic catalyst stability, particularly in Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic enhances catalytic properties, as seen in Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs, which are highly active for CO oxidation via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable through various gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt to relieve strain, is observed. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces segregation of 3d transition metals due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The electronic structure of surface Pt is modified by subsurface Fe, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of high-performance, low-cost catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show enhanced activity in oxygen reduction reactions compared to pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, with Pt-skin surfaces showing four times higher reaction rates than pure Pt. This highlights the critical role of studying surface segregation trends under varying reaction conditions, especially under surface adsorption, as adsorbates can alter surface composition, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed strong surface segregation of Pd and Pt post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt's (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies decreasing as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. Preparation steps for studying floating behavior included Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The surface atomic distribution, especially in the first 23 layers, significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, as the process requires neighboring Pt sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts and experiments confirm that Pt3dPt subsurface structures, critical for catalysis, are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregate with oxygen. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, whereas PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability, and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with oxygen. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Pt3dPt(100) has higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host shifts segregation potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the surface and a Pt concentration gradient in PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms' preference for (100) facets over (111) facets significantly impacts catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe bimetallic catalysts, enhancing corrosion resistance and impacting catalytic properties in fuel cells. This is evidenced by the disappearance of the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak, indicating increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Ongoing research explores CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer for electrocatalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, significantly impacts the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, forming a Pt-skin, is crucial for stability and catalytic performance. PtAu alloys exhibit favorable Au segregation, while Co in PtCo alloys tends to migrate inward, making Co segregation unlikely. Pt-skin surfaces boost ORR rates fourfold compared to pure Pt. Studies reveal the importance of surface and subsurface composition for segregation trends in Pt alloys. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is exothermic for PtAu but endothermic for PtCo, indicating thermodynamic and kinetic barriers for Co segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals significantly enhance surface adsorption properties and stabilize Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, improving catalytic properties like oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The protective effect of 3d subsurface atoms boosts stability, facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, and modifies electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. Probe molecule sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the critical role of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for active metals like Ru and Pt, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has been replaced with less expensive metals in bimetallic alloys, leading to enhanced ORR activities, especially in Pt alloys with 3d metals. Notably, surface segregation plays a pivotal role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s study on Pt3Co alloys, where Pt-skin surfaces showed a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, such as temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems like AgPt alloys. At room temperature, specific 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, and annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying through AgPt exchange, allowing the alloy to spread across the surface. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions influence catalyst stability and structure, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity. This Pt-skin surface boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, critical for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit exceptional hydrogen binding, weakly attaching atomic hydrogen akin to noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by strongly binding to alloy components, with hydrogen-induced segregation estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. Precise control of surface structure is essential for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, suggesting advancements in nanofabrication techniques are required. NSAs offer potential for selective hydrogenation reactions and improved hydrogen management, as confirmed by recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and nanoparticle fabrication technologies.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic alloys, surface segregation of Pt is promoted by V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir, while Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it. This behavior, governed by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, is critical for understanding catalytic properties under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit altered stability influenced by oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms more resistant to segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. In Pt2Ti skin alloys, surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo enhances stability at high electrochemical potentials, with Pt2Mo having a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key role in OOH dissociation for OR activity. The stability hierarchy follows Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under high CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, offering new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis. DFT calculations confirm these findings, suggesting implications for catalytic properties in applications like water-gas shift reactions. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting catalyst activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface metal stability and catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. DFT predicts stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, highlighting crystal plane effects on bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their complex surface structures, surpass monometallic catalysts in catalytic properties. Pt-based alloys featuring Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals demonstrate superior catalytic performance. Surface dynamics during reactions, influenced by changes in the gaseous environment, enable the tuning of catalytic activity and selectivity by adjusting the redox potential of reaction gases.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, particularly in Pt-based alloys, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) is more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, indicating thermodynamic preferences. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, suggesting a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Hydrogen's binding energy influences subsurface admetal segregation, while oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, especially at high coverage. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d alloy catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. This dynamic enhances CO oxidation activity on Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs [3], underscoring the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes under varying redox potentials of environmental gases, tunable through gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii to relieve strain, with Pt's larger radius contributing to this process. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not affect the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption induces segregation of 3d transition metals due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to the encapsulation of Pt surfaces with metal oxides. Reversible mass transport processes, active in oxidation or reduction reactions, depend on the redox potential of reaction gases, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and excel in hydrogenation reactions. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Surface configurations adapt under varying conditions, influencing catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, where Fe-Pt alloys show higher activity than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts enhances oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, significantly influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. Adsorbates under operating environments alter segregation trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties. Studying this under adsorption is critical for understanding Pt-based alloys' performance, as catalytic properties are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by surface composition. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys, for instance, exhibit four times the ORR rate of pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) demonstrate surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt, with slight Pt loss, after Ru deposition and re-alloying. Stability varies with Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt's (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111)) and size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001). Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D component distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces favors the bridge site over the (100) step. Surface segregation is observed in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems, with Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displaying antisegregation even under oxygen adsorption, affecting catalytic activity by altering surface atomic arrangements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly PtAu systems, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability and structure. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. Experimental results on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirm these predictions, showing PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, quantified using Δεd and a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship, correlate DFT stability with experimental kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface MPtPt(111) with 0.5 ML O. Experimental measurements confirm segregation and activation barriers. AES reveals two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation with Δεd beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations with 0.5 ML O.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, simulations reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentrates towards the core. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, influencing catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution, rearrange the Pt surface, and create a corrosion-resistant shield. This layer's role in fuel cell catalysis, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation, is under investigation, offering new insights into electrode material study.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, Pt-Fe alloys demonstrate enhanced electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt, attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Pt's sluggish kinetics in fuel cells limit efficiency, prompting research on Pt alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, particularly the formation of a pure Pt-skin, is crucial for stability. PtAu alloys exhibit strong Au segregation, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, unlike PtCo alloys where Co is unable to enrich the surface. Pt-skin surfaces uniquely activate the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), quadrupling reaction rates compared to pure Pt. The segregation process for Au on Pt(111) surfaces is exothermic, making it thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co segregating to clean Pt(111) surfaces is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, 3d metals enhance surface stability and adsorption, especially under oxygen-covered conditions, due to the protective role of subsurface 3d atoms. This correlates with oxygen adsorption strength, modifying electronic and geometric properties, which boosts adsorbate binding strength, enhancing catalytic properties like increased ORR rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting the ORR rate. Stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing of PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces transforms them into surface alloys, altering adsorption properties significantly. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects modify adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. STM reveals surface structure and component distribution, essential for understanding adsorption properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, is crucial in materials science, affecting properties like permeation and dramatically altering catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. These alloys, especially when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activities due to surface segregation. Notably, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the role of surface segregation in catalytic enhancement. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving forces behind this phenomenon, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Under varying reaction conditions, particularly temperature, the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts like Pt-based alloys are influenced. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, and annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to nanophasic alloy formation confined to the surface. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, affecting catalytic properties. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen weakly like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications, with selected NSAs uniquely permitting weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is assessed in vacuum and with hydrogen adsorption effects, and adsorbates preferentially bind to alloy components they strongly attach to. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Dopants like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation in Pt3Ni, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution determine the extent of Pt segregation, impacting the stability, structure, and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloy surfaces exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than in their absence. Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo stands out for its stability at high electrochemical potentials and lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR), with OOH dissociation being a key parameter for OR activity. Pt2Mo shows higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo contents offer higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo contents destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly influence oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation and subsurface stability, impacting ORR activity. DFT calculations predict these dynamics, highlighting crystal plane variations' role in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, with 3d transition metals in the subsurface, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to increased surface structural complexity. Surface dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity, surpassing monometallic catalysts in versatility and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells favor a Pt surface. Hydrogen's binding energy influences segregation, while oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak electronegativity have minimal effect, whereas strong ones like oxygen significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "3d TMs in Pt-based catalysts favor subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and size, and segregate to the surface under oxidizing conditions to form oxidized islands. This impacts catalytic properties, as atomic dispersed 3d TMs on Pt surfaces enhance CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the significance of the structure-environment interplay for catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metals' segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Surface transformations under varying conditions influence catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and hydrogenation, with Pt-skin structures showing higher activity than pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly enhances catalytic activities, particularly in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), surpassing pure Pt performance. This phenomenon, closely tied to improved catalytic activity, has garnered significant research interest. Adsorbates can alter surface composition and catalytic properties, making the study of surface segregation under real-world conditions critical for understanding the performance of Pt-based alloys in applications like ORR.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with near-complete restoration of the original composition. Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, with surface energies following the order Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111). Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to lower Pd content, 2D component distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorbs preferentially at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly impacted by segregation, plays a critical role in the catalytic activity of alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, as Au remains atop Pt clusters. CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, notably on initially pure Au surfaces. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are crucial for O2 dissociation, explaining why oxidation is hindered on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregate with oxygen, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd and BEP relationships predict preferred configurations in different environments, impacting catalytic properties by potentially binding intermediates too strongly or weakly.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the surface and increased Pt concentration towards the core in PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets, significantly affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion. This impacts catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing studies exploring the electrocatalytic behavior of the Pt skin layer through CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is pivotal for understanding the stability and structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts under varying conditions, impacting their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, show improved oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, vital for PEM fuel cells. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, significantly affects stability and catalytic efficiency. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable and Co tends to migrate inward, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. This process is exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo. Pt-skin surfaces have a four times higher ORR rate than pure Pt, as observed by Stamenkovic et al. Surface segregation is critical for Pt-based alloys, with studies characterizing surface and subsurface regions. The dissolution of metal atoms creates defects, affecting the rearrangement process, and the segregation model interprets these phenomena from a kinetic perspective.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. 3d metals in Pt(111) systems enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, improves catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, boosting catalytic performance. Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show superior stability under adsorbate coverage, underlining their protective role.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, altering adsorption properties through ensemble and electronic interactions, changing adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between Pt and Ru. This affects catalyst activity and selectivity, highlighting the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to surface structure and composition, crucial for catalytic properties in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly impacts catalytic activities in bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find alternatives have focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where less expensive metals replace some Pt, enhancing catalytic properties through appropriate structural configurations. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of surface electronic structure and bond length. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the transformation of Ag80Pt20 2D-adislands into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing above 600 K. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structural dynamics and stability, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) exhibit exceptional hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, pivotal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs enable weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, advantageous for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: analyzing vacuum composition and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates influence surface composition, and hydrogen's role in surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, with experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs showing modified catalytic activity. These findings suggest that precise control of metal catalyst surface structure, possibly through advanced nanofabrication techniques, could unlock the full catalytic potential of NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation due to surface energy effects, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it, preventing Pt from reaching the surface, under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which reduces surface Pt atom segregation (Quote 1). Oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions significantly impacts stability, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt (Quote 8). Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for high activity and stability. Molybdenum (Mo) in Pt2M alloys forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials (Quote 9), with Pt2Mo having a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OR activity (Quote 10). The Pt2Mo skin alloy, with a 30% Mo content, achieves the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer, as confirmed by DFT calculations. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes influence subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, impacting surface segregation and structure. Oxygen's role, as predicted by DFT calculations, shows varied stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), directly affecting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, highlighting crystal plane effects on bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic properties due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Pt-skin surfaces show exceptional performance in reactions. Surface structures dynamically adapt during reactions, akin to reversible processes under redox shifts, enabling tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence surface stability and segregation, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) as more stable than surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells favor Pt-terminated surfaces, indicating thermodynamic stability. Segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen binding energies dictate surface composition. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like N or O can alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs prefer subsurface layers in Pt-based catalysts due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces enriched with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high activity for CO oxidation, demonstrating the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface, potentially leading to their oxidation and encapsulation of Pt surfaces with oxides. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes, as demonstrated in PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu nanoparticle systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation [1], while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenation [2]. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt [3], influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4]. Surface configurations transform under varying conditions, affecting catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show enhanced activity compared to pure Pt, with specific alloys demonstrating significantly higher activity in oxygen reduction reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit four times higher ORR rates, underscoring segregation's role in activity improvement. Studying Pt alloys under real reaction conditions, with adsorbates that can alter surface segregation and composition, is critical for understanding their catalytic properties, as catalytic properties are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by surface composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, influenced by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru: 1.31.6 eVatom1, Pt: 1 eVatom1, Pd: 0.8 eVatom1) and size mismatch. Observed floating behavior suggests Pt (Pd) dissolution probability in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen preferentially adsorbs at the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show segregation, while Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen. Surface structure, shaped by segregation, significantly affects catalytic activity in bimetallic catalysts' initial layers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic Pt-based catalysts. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface migration to bind CO. For CO oxidation, contiguous Pt sites are essential, explaining the lack of reaction on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, as O2 dissociation requires multiple adjacent Pt sites. These dynamics directly influence catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but 3d atoms segregate with oxygen, as DFT predicts and experiments confirm. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Subsurface structures are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface structures with oxygen. Δεd screens alloys for stability, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. Experiments confirm predicted segregation and activation barriers, showing two segregation regions. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends indicate thermodynamic stability correlation with Δεd extends beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, creating a Pt concentration gradient from surface to core, with Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, with (111)-oriented facets, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. The layer's formation is evidenced by the disappearance of a Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak, indicating increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement. Ongoing research explores its electrocatalytic behavior in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times more effective than pure Pt. This enhancement, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells, is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt alloys, exhibit enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface. PtAu alloys show thermodynamically favored Au segregation, contrasting with the endothermic Co segregation in PtCo alloys. Co atoms in PtCo prefer migrating to the second layer, hindering continuous Co segregation. Surface segregation boosts catalytic activity, as Pt-skin surfaces display ORR rates four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have clarified segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys, revealing the segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration. The exothermic Au and endothermic Co segregation cycles illustrate thermodynamic and kinetic factors influencing surface composition, crucial for understanding the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Incorporating 3d metals into Pt(111) enhances surface adsorption properties and stability, particularly in Pt-skin surfaces of Pt-3d alloys under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, linked to a positive potential shift that delays Pt atom dissolution. This modification of electronic and geometric properties boosts catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability, facilitated by surface segregation that aids in the removal of adsorbed species.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and significantly affecting catalytic activity and selectivity in Pt-based alloy systems. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights ensemble and electronic interaction effects, crucial for understanding catalytic implications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the leading electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find cost-effective alternatives have concentrated on Pt-based bimetallic alloys. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Notably, enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For example, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, transforming into a nanophasic AgPt alloy upon annealing above 600 K, which spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures cause mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, impacting structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique properties, binding atomic hydrogen weakly akin to noble metals while efficiently dissociating H2, making them pivotal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability can be assessed using a two-step procedure: analyzing composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates tend to draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen separation/storage.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamics and reaction conditions significantly affect stability, surface segregation, and structure. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd inhibit it, influenced by factors such as surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, including Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, emphasizing the importance of zero oxygen coverage for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, hindering surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for oxygen reduction activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively drives the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, influenced by crystal planes, impacts subsurface stability and catalytic properties. DFT predicts oxygen's effect on subsurface stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), crucial for ORR activity, highlighting crystal plane significance in bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, featuring Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, allowing for tunable catalytic activity and selectivity based on redox potential, as observed in monometallic catalysts. This dynamic nature is critical to their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface structures' thermodynamic superiority over surface configurations in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Pt-3d alloy catalysts exhibit dynamic stability and surface segregation under varying conditions. Reductive environments push 3d TMs into subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, whereas oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs are highly active for CO oxidation, demonstrating the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to its larger atomic radius, contributing to strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, whereas oxygen's strong bonding can induce 3d metal segregation onto the top surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential changes, significantly impact catalytic processes. (Pt's atomic radius is much larger than Co, Ni, and Cu, contributing to surface segregation. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't change the segregation process. Oxygen adsorption on Pt M surfaces can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding.)", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show enhanced activity compared to pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, highlighting the importance of understanding surface structural configurations and stability under various conditions for optimizing Fe-Pt structures in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can alter surface composition and segregation trends, affecting catalytic properties. Studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is critical for understanding their performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) was confirmed post re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Higher surface energies and larger size of Pt and Pd compared to Ru drive surface segregation. Floating behavior, observed through preparation steps, indicates a probability for Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), likely due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co show segregation, while Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even in the presence of oxygen. Surface atomic distribution in the first 23 layers of catalytic alloys significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the role of segregation in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamics and reaction conditions dictate the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as confirmed by DFT calculations. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the scarcity of Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    