Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation. These predictions are experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, with Δεd used to screen alloys. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface configurations in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface configurations with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify segregation and activation barriers. Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Simulations reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to bulk, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further research on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, is ongoing.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "High-performance cathode electrocatalysts are crucial for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where Pt atoms form a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin surfaces are uniquely active for the ORR, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the pathway from the second layer to the surface being exothermic for PtAu and endothermic for PtCo, hindering continuous Co segregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals into Pt(111) systems alters surface adsorption properties, with stability enhancement observed in clean and oxygen-covered Pt-skin surfaces. This stability is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which also modify electronic and geometric properties, enhancing catalytic performance. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the oxygen reduction reaction rate, while the presence of 3d metals delays the dissolution of Pt atoms to higher potentials, indicating enhanced stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature influences the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming surface morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure affects adsorption properties, explained by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Annealing-induced changes in surface morphology lead to significant modifications in CO and deuterium adsorption properties, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt. These changes have implications for the catalytic properties of the surface, affecting activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, significantly affects physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, where some Pt is replaced by less expensive metals, have shown enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to the surface electronic structure and surface bond length of alloy systems. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studying Ag on a Pt(1 0 0) surface reveals that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. These findings suggest that varying reaction conditions can influence the structural dynamics of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Strong Pt surface segregation in ternary alloys forms a Pt monolayer, leading to weaker O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, defying common rules. NSAs exhibit high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. NSA stability is evaluated in two steps: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, and hydrogen's tendency can be gauged by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may vary from ideal models, yet these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, making it more negative, whereas doping with Ag, Au, and Pd leads to positive segregation energies, inhibiting Pt surface segregation. The extent of Pt surface segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution of the Pt3M crystal compared to Pt3Ni. Doping with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir strengthens Pt segregation to the surface, while doping with Ag, Au, and Pd prevents Pt from segregating to the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly under electrochemical conditions, is influenced by oxygen coverage. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are stabilized by the Pt d-band structure, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt atoms at vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms exposed at the vacancy can form stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds. Pt2Ti skin alloys demonstrate that surface vacancies with OTi bonding are more stable than those with only OPt bonding. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is key for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. Aqueous environments and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This behavior is driven by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, like Pt-3d alloys, influence subsurface 3d metal stability and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. DFT calculations predict oxygen-induced segregation and stability of subsurface 3d metals, with crystal planes affecting both subsurface stability and ORR activity, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity and catalytic properties over monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structure changes dynamically during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under varying redox conditions, offering opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like N or O can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Conversely, oxidizing conditions induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common, driven by strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and catalyze hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons effectively. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Surface structural configurations transform under varying conditions, impacting catalytic properties in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, as Fe49Pt51 alloys with 100% Pt topmost layer have 25 times the activity of pure Pt in such reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the phenomenon's importance. Surface segregation's close relation to activity improvement is evident, making it crucial to study under surface adsorption, as adsorbates can influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu and PtRu surface alloys on Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. The stability of these alloys is influenced by the lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by differences in surface energies (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch between guest and host metals, favoring inclusion of Pt and Pd in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied to understand the floating behavior. The probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region can be estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir shows antisegregation. Surface atomic arrangement in the first 23 layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing surface distribution in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and performance, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces due to low Pt site ensemble probability, explaining the lack of oxidation on pure Au clusters.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is crucial for catalytic properties and performance in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis. DFT predictions, verified experimentally, show these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen but segregate with oxygen. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, predicted from DFT and confirmed on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Δεd can screen bimetallic alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship links DFT stability with experimental barriers for Pt3dPt systems. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability for other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. Stability has been considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface MPtPt(111) is favored with 0.5 ML O. AES results confirm segregation behavior and activation barriers for adsorbate-induced segregation. Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation with d-band center difference is applicable beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have the same preferred configuration in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and surface configurations preferred with 0.5 ML O.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the surface, especially the (100) facets, while Pt enriches the core, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, the dissolution of Fe in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer enhances stability against corrosion, impacting the alloy's catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on the Pt skin layer is ongoing to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, achieving a 25-fold increase at around 50% Fe content compared to pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not the interatomic distance or surface roughening, illustrating the influence of structural dynamics on catalytic properties under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In PEM fuel cells, Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics limit efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for improved activity. Surface segregation, where Pt forms a pure skin on the alloy surface, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu, while Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co, which is both thermodynamically and kinetically hindered. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit four times the ORR rate of pure Pt, highlighting the catalytic implications of surface segregation. Modern techniques have elucidated segregation trends in Pt alloys, revealing the critical role of surface defects and interlayer migration in the process.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces, particularly under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, particularly annealing temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems. For PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, annealing transforms surface morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties. These changes are attributed to ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation. The surface structure and composition significantly affect adsorption properties, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and ORR in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop cheaper alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals are observed, with surface segregation playing a crucial role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, not just surface geometry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. An example is the temperature-dependent growth of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, forming elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying, starting at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that these factors influence the catalyst's structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based NSAs, exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, binding atomic hydrogen weakly while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. NSAs' stability and surface segregation can be assessed by considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates, like hydrogen, preferentially draw alloy components they bind strongly to the surface. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Improved nanofabrication techniques could enhance control over catalyst surface structures, maximizing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhances Pt surface segregation, while doping with Ag, Au, and Pd suppresses it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by the relative Pt surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Transition metals that lead to more negative Pt surface segregation energies promote Pt segregation, whereas those causing positive energies inhibit it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys is influenced by oxygen coverage, with alloys generally being less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials is key for high activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure indicates that alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a low Mo content (below 30%) providing higher stability at high potentials but not improving activity over Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption on CuPt near-surface alloys counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings, confirmed by DFT calculations, suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy, suggested as a promising water-gas shift catalyst due to reduced PtCO bonding, forms a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure at high CO pressures, which is more stable than Cu in the bulk. The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, where the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur. These results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), with crystal planes influencing ORR activity. These factors determine surface segregation and structural configuration, crucial for catalytic properties and performance in applications like ORR.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic properties compared to monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region show exceptional catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics during reactions, influenced by changes in the gaseous environment, offer opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are thermodynamically preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones, like N or O, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions (vacuum, CO), 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1]. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands [2]. This impacts catalytic properties; for example, Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs show high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism [3]. The interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity is key to alloy catalyst performance [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, depending on gas redox potential. These reversible structural changes have significant implications for catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalyst performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation. Fe overlayers in metallic or oxidized states can form on the surface or subsurface of Pt, with different reactions producing distinct Fe-Pt surface configurations. For oxygen reduction reactions, Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires understanding the stability of various structures at elevated temperatures and under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly altering catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the importance of surface segregation. Adsorbates under operating environments can modify surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. Studying segregation under adsorbates is crucial for understanding the catalytic performance of Pt-based alloys in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. Surface alloy stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease as Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with observed segregation trends. Size mismatches favor inclusion of Pt and Pd in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were monitored for floating behavior. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) at 500 K contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits unique antisegregation behavior even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) and immiscibility with Pt (at Au >17%) favor Au's surface retention on Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in surfacing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is crucial for catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation. Experimental verification on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt confirms these predictions. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are quantified using DFT and experiments, correlating with d-band center values and kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures. Stability is considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT and experiments on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Switching admetal/host components shifts the driving potential of segregation. General stability trends predict preferred configurations in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the core of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pd preferentially segregating to (100) facets. These phenomena influence catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, formed by Fe dissolution, protects the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties in fuel cell applications. Ongoing research examines the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is explained by the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not by interatomic distance or surface roughening, crucial for understanding the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Pt is a key cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, yet its slow ORR kinetics limits efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have shown enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, which forms a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer, enhancing stability. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co atoms tend to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation significantly affects catalytic properties, as Pt-skin surfaces show a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective. The exothermic process of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process of Co segregation, illustrating the thermodynamic and kinetic differences in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces. This stability enhancement, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, follows the opposite order of oxygen adsorption strengths, indicating the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength and enhancing catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from alloys show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. These changes affect catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, impacts properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the ORR in fuel cells, has led to the exploration of Pt-based bimetallic alloys as cost-effective alternatives. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be significantly improved. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Under varying reaction conditions, particularly temperature, the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, such as Pt-based alloys, are influenced. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on a Pt(1 0 0) surface with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, leading to nanophasic alloy formation confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that enhances activity for the oxygen reduction reaction by weakening O and OH binding strengths compared to bimetallic surfaces. This Pt surface also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals but with easier H2 dissociation, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing new NSAs for these applications. Selected NSAs defy the norm by enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation and storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation by attracting strongly bound alloy components. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences between solute and host. Despite deviations from ideal NSA models, main adsorbate behavior trends remain unaffected.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as Pt3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Doping with promoting metals strengthens Pt segregation, whereas doping with suppressing metals can prevent Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability. The Pt d-band structure stabilizes upon alloying, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface (Quote 2). Surface vacancies with OTi bonding in Pt2Ti skin alloys are more stable than those with OPt bonding (Quote 6), consistent with O's anion-like behavior favoring ionic bonds (Quote 7). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, with OOH dissociation barrier as a key parameter for OR activity. The stability order is Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with OOH dissociation determining the potential profile height. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo is 30%, achieving the best stability and activity balance. Low Mo content (e.g., Pt5Mo) may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while high Mo content (e.g., PtMo) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, the less reactive Cu component segregates to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. Adsorbate bonding changes local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting catalyst activity and selectivity. The CuPt near-surface alloy's instability at high CO pressures and temperatures leads to the formation of a self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, where the stable CO-induced surface alloy forms and breaks up. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly influence the thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, particularly ORR activity. Crystal plane effects on subsurface stability and ORR activity are crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit enhanced surface complexity, with the second metal affecting catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to monometallic catalysts, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity based on reaction gases' redox potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface structure stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have a minor effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate stability, surface segregation, and structure. Reductive conditions like vacuum and CO push 3d transition metals (TMs) to the subsurface due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, cause 3d TMs to segregate to the surface, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic significantly affects catalytic properties; for example, Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity through a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, but oxygen adsorption can induce 3d transition metals to the surface due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes are reversible, depending on reaction gases' redox potential, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [1,2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to the subsurface Fe's influence on the surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts [4]. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. The stability of these structures under different atmospheres is crucial for optimizing Fe-Pt catalysts in magnetism and catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic activities. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities are observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt, closely tied to surface segregation. Studies often focus on surface and subsurface structures under vacuum, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can alter surface segregation trends and composition, affecting catalytic properties. The unusual catalytic activity of Pt-skin surfaces, where Pt segregates on the topmost layer, shows reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the importance of studying segregation under surface adsorption for understanding catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was nearly restored, indicating significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability variance may be attributed to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease as Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1), and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt: 0.277 nm, Pd: 0.275 nm) and Ru(0001) (0.270 nm) enhances surface segregation. The floating behavior was observed through four preparation steps, and the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) at 500 K contrasts with layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), possibly due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show surface segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy favoring its surface retention on Pt clusters. Immiscibility at high Au compositions keeps Au atop Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. DFT shows Pt diffusion to bind CO is thermodynamically favorable. CO oxidation requires contiguous Pt sites for O2 dissociation, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure. These dynamics impact catalytic properties and performance in applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is critical for catalytic performance, being stable in vacuum and with hydrogen but segregating with oxygen, as DFT predicts and experiments confirm. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Surface and subsurface structures' stability can be quantified, guiding alloy selection. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surfaces, and vice versa. Stability trends apply to multiple atomic species and can be extended to complex adsorbates. DFT and experiments on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt align, showing subsurface configurations preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surface to bulk in PtPd nanoparticles. These have Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores, with Pd preferentially segregating to (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific electrochemical conditions, PtFe alloys form a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ STM in a 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its stability and catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Ongoing research is exploring the electrocatalytic behavior of this Pt skin layer, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at around 50% Fe content, which is 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening. This finding is crucial for understanding the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, particularly in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Platinum's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring Au's presence on the surface, while Co is typically unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. The segregation process is exothermic for Au in PtAu systems but endothermic for Co in PtCo systems, making Co segregation thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation's role is evident in studies showing that ORR activity is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, leads to improved catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further boosting catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing temperature influences the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming surface morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure and composition affect adsorption properties, with ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition highlights the importance of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt, impacting catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects physical and chemical properties, including catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to develop cheaper alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. Enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals are observed, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys boost ORR activity fourfold compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures and surface bond lengths, with surface geometry not significantly contributing to the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studies on silver growth on a Pt(1 0 0) surface reveal that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands with a composition of Ag80Pt20 form. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, this alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies indicate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions can affect the catalytic properties and performance of bimetallic catalysts in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Strong Pt surface segregation in ternary alloys forms a Pt monolayer, leading to weaker O and OH binding strengths and enhanced ORR activity compared to bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces exhibit improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly while dissociating H2 easily, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing new NSAs. Selected NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates draw alloy components to the surface, and hydrogen's tendency to induce segregation can be estimated by comparing energies. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of surface structure through improved nanofabrication techniques could optimize catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. The surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects from the doped element M collectively impact Pt surface segregation energy. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals increases Pt segregation to the surface, whereas replacing it with suppressing metals can prevent Pt surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt2Mo, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, but maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is key for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the Pt d-band stabilization, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. Oxygen atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Surface vacancies with OTi bonding in Pt2Ti skin alloys are more stable than those with OPt bonding, consistent with atomic O's anion-like behavior. Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a stabilizing element at high electrochemical potentials. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier for OOH dissociation, enhancing OR activity. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the TS for OOH dissociation as a critical parameter. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The optimum Mo content in Pt2Mo is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, CO adsorption at high pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is in the first surface layer. These findings open new avenues for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increased Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in applications like water-gas shift reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation dynamics in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, are influenced by the crystal plane, affecting subsurface 3d metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, with implications for catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal plane impacts subsurface stability and, consequently, surface segregation and structural configuration, influencing catalytic performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced surface structural complexity and superior catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface region demonstrate exceptional catalytic activity. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, offer opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions, particularly in Pt-based alloys, is critical as it modifies catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen's influence dependent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact, while strong ones significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d metals doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in response to O2 and H2 contribute to surface structure and composition oscillations, significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. The stability of Pt-skin structures can decrease under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Structural transformations between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surfaces, influenced by oxidation and reduction cycles, affect catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions, hydrogenation, and CO preferential oxidation. Preparation methods and reaction conditions determine the presence of metallic or oxidized Fe overlayers, influencing surface structural configurations. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe or other transition metals show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times the activity of pure Pt. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability at elevated temperatures and under various reaction atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance compared to pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to unusual catalytic activity, has spurred extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, understanding surface segregation under real reaction environments with adsorbates is critical, as these can influence segregation trends and surface composition, directly impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface layer, except for a slight Pt loss. The stability variance may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch favors impurity inclusion in the outermost Ru layer, enhancing segregation. The floating behavior was observed through a series of preparation steps, including Pt (Pd) deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying. The distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the (100) step's bridge site in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic arrangement in the initial layers of catalytic alloys significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in diffusing to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites, is hindered on 100% Au surfaces due to low Pt site ensemble probability. These factors affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures is crucial for catalytic applications, showing stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but segregating to the surface with oxygen. DFT predictions, verified experimentally, reveal higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures compared to surface configurations. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends are consistent across environments, with subsurface structures preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface structures favored with oxygen. These findings are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, bridging the materials gap. The difference in d-band center, Δεd, aids in screening bimetallic alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. Stability predictions extend to various atomic species and can be scaled to complex adsorbates. Empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in different conditions, and the correlation of stability with d-band center differences is applicable beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results indicate Pd atoms segregate to the outer layers, with Pt concentration increasing towards the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific thermodynamic conditions, Pt-3d alloys like PtFe exhibit surface segregation, forming a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution, rearrange surface Pt, and create a protective layer that shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cells. Ongoing research examines CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer to further understand its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the enhancement of Pt's electrocatalytic activity by alloying with Fe, achieving a 25-fold increase at 50% Fe content, essential for polymer electrolyte fuel cells. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not the interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits catalytic efficiency, prompting extensive research into Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, favoring thermodynamics, while Co's inability to enrich PtCo surfaces is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for catalytic properties. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components, revealing the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys. For instance, Pt-skin surfaces exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The segregation model interprets these phenomena, highlighting the exothermic process in PtAu and the endothermic process in PtCo systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Incorporating 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both clean and under oxygen adsorption. This stability enhancement correlates inversely with oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, which can improve catalytic properties and performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the reaction rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing impacts the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, transforming Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This significantly alters adsorption properties, attributed to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions upon alloy formation. Surface structure affects adsorption properties, explained by ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption. Annealing-induced changes in surface morphology from Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys modify CO and deuterium adsorption properties, demonstrating sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, impacts physical and chemical properties, significantly altering catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have concentrated on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate structural configurations. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit heightened ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. Stamenkovic et al. observed that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, formed by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures, not just surface geometry. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Studies on Ag growth on Pt(1 0 0) reveal that at room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands form with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes extensive alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy that spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that these factors influence catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary alloys exhibit significant Pt surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) exhibit unique hydrogen binding properties, similar to noble metals, while facilitating easier H2 dissociation, crucial for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory calculations aid in developing NSAs for these applications. Exceptional NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical compound production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends, as evidenced by modified catalytic activity in experimental studies.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt3Ni/M (111) surfaces, the addition of transition metals modifies Pt surface segregation. Metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir lower Pt segregation energy, promoting surface Pt concentration, while Ag, Au, and Pd increase segregation energy, inhibiting Pt surface presence. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects, influenced by lattice mismatch and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni. This impacts catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions, with alloys generally less stable than pure Pt at the same coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is key for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the Pt d-band stabilization, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Pt2Mo, identified among various Pt2M alloys, forms a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for OR activity. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%. Lower Mo content may offer higher stability at high potentials but lacks the activity of Pt at 0.9 V, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can change local atomic composition and surface structure, impacting the activity and selectivity of the catalyst. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems, like Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by crystal planes, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, impacting catalytic properties, notably ORR activity. Crystal planes influence subsurface stability, crucial for understanding bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their second metal in various states, exhibit enhanced catalytic properties over monometallic counterparts. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, influenced by redox potential, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface segregation is determined by the segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen's effect contingent on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface configuration, whereas strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys. Under reductive conditions like vacuum and CO, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. These structural dynamics influence catalytic properties; for example, Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption induces their top surface segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d transition metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Pt-skin stability can decrease under oxidative conditions, causing Fe surface segregation. Catalyst configuration transforms between surface Fe or FeO and subsurface Fe on Pt(111) surface through oxidation-reduction cycles, affecting catalytic properties in various applications. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys having 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for magnetism and catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic activities under varying reaction conditions. Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals compared to pure Pt highlight the role of surface segregation. Studies reveal that surface segregation closely relates to activity improvement, as seen in Pt-skin surfaces with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Research has predominantly focused on vacuum conditions, but catalytic reactions like the ORR occur under environments with adsorbates that can alter surface segregation trends and composition, underscoring the importance of studying Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption for a comprehensive understanding of their catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability differences may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, causing surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation's role in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions crucially affect bimetallic catalyst stability, surface segregation, and structure, especially in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt at high Au compositions favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature enhances Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in surfacing to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining why oxidation is absent on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles. These dynamics significantly impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in varying conditions is crucial for their catalytic properties. DFT predicts stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. This was experimentally verified on Pt3dPt(111) systems and polycrystalline Pt, showing higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation in subsurface structures. PtNiPt is most resistant, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends were confirmed through DFT and experiments on Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt, with Δεd used to screen alloys for stability. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability in other bimetallic systems. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. For Pt3d systems, oxygen binding energy differences are significant. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. Stability was considered with various atomic species, extendable to complex adsorbates. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface MPtPt(111) stability with oxygen. Experimental measurements verified subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantified activation barriers. AES results suggest two segregation regions, showing DFT and experiments apply to polycrystalline substrates. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends show d-band center correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface preferred in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk, leading to Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) in the shell, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, resulting from Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, protects the alloy from corrosion, enhancing its catalytic properties for fuel cell applications. Further research on CO adsorption and oxidation on this layer is underway to explore its electrocatalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, impacting catalytic properties. Notably, alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy of the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity compared to pure Pt, addressing its sluggish kinetics. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outer layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, while Co is less likely to enrich PtCo surfaces. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, unlike Co, which has a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, with reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. Studies using modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys. The segregation process involves interlayer migration, vacancy movement, and regeneration, with the model interpreting these phenomena from a kinetic perspective. The exothermic process of Au segregation contrasts with the endothermic process for Co, further illustrating the thermodynamic and kinetic factors affecting surface segregation in Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly affect stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals modifies surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt, both in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability enhancement is attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, which bind strongly to the Pt surface layer. The presence of 3d metals alters electronic and geometric properties, leading to enhanced catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate and improved electrochemical stability. The formation of a Pt-skin layer facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate. Under adsorbate coverage, Pt-skin surfaces from the alloys show enhanced stability compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like annealing temperature, significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. In PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, annealing transforms surface morphology from isolated Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties. These changes are attributed to ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation. The surface structure and composition significantly affect adsorption properties, as observed by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). Probe molecule adsorption is sensitive to the local structure and composition of bimetallic surfaces, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt, demonstrating the importance of surface structure in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the prime electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys, determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, can be enhanced through appropriate chemical composition. Pt alloys with 3d metals show improved ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches elucidate the driving force behind surface segregation, which is also influenced by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, affecting catalytic properties. For instance, silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface forms elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature, with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes alloying at the perimeter of Ag adislands, leading to a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies show Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions influence catalyst stability and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. This Pt-skin also boosts electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), especially those in Pt-based systems, exhibit unique hydrogen chemistry crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. NSAs can bind atomic hydrogen weakly while easily dissociating H2, making them ideal for hydrogen-related reactions. The stability of NSAs can be assessed by considering composition in vacuum and the effects of hydrogen adsorption. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, which is estimated by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, promising selective hydrogenation reactions for pharmaceutical compounds and easier hydrogen separation and storage. Deviations from idealized NSA models do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends, as shown by experimental studies on non-ideal NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys like Pt3Ni, the addition of a third transition metal modifies Pt surface segregation. Transition metals V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects from the doped element collectively influence Pt segregation. The extent of Pt segregation is determined by relative surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir strengthens Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage, with zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) being crucial for high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the Pt d-band stabilization, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Surface vacancies allow for stronger OM bonds than OPt bonds, with O atoms bonding to solute M atoms at the second layer, as seen in Pt2Ti skin alloys where OTi bonding is more stable than OPt bonding. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage are critical for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on alloy surfaces. Among Pt2M alloys, Pt2Mo exhibits the highest stability at high electrochemical potentials and has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction compared to Pt, making it the best balance of stability and activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, as lower contents may achieve higher stability but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while higher contents destabilize the alloy and reduce activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The bonding of adsorbates can induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, affecting the activity and selectivity of the catalyst. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes impact the thermodynamic stability of subsurface 3d metals in Pt-based catalysts, affecting oxygen-induced segregation. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, influencing catalytic properties, notably ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. These catalysts exhibit greater surface structural complexity than monometallics, with the second metal present in various states, affecting catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics with Pt-skin surfaces and 3d transition metals in the subsurface show enhanced catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, similar to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts. This dependence on redox potential offers opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions, particularly in Pt-based systems, is critical as it modifies catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen-induced segregation influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal impact on surface-subsurface configuration, whereas strong electronegativity can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, promote 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. This dynamic significantly impacts catalytic properties; for example, Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, particularly PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter segregation thermodynamics, whereas oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Structural transformations under varying conditions have implications for catalytic performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and CO preferential oxidation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times greater activity in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface structural configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt-3d alloys exhibit enhanced oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities compared to pure Pt, closely linked to surface segregation. Studies under vacuum conditions have explored surface structures and electronic properties, but catalytic reactions like ORR occur in environments with adsorbates that can modify surface composition and segregation trends. Understanding Pt-based alloys' segregation under surface adsorption is critical for their catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys revealed that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition was restored, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurred during re-alloying. The stability variance may be due to the lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies follow Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Preparation steps showed floating behavior, and a Boltzmann approach estimated Pt (Pd) dissolution probability. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D component distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most favorably at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys. Surface segregation is evident in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems, with Pt/Ir(core) uniquely exhibiting antisegregation in the presence of oxygen. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst surface's initial layers significantly influences catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt (at Au compositions >17%) favor Au's surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why oxidation doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of neighboring Pt sites. These factors impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures under varying conditions is critical for their catalytic properties. DFT predictions and experimental verifications on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt show that these structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, but segregate with adsorbed oxygen. PtNiPt is most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. The stability trend, verified on single crystal and polycrystalline Pt, predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while surface configurations are favored with 0.5 ML O. Δεd can screen bimetallic alloys for stability in different environments, and empirical equations predict thermodynamic stability in various conditions. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties of subsurface structures for dehydrogenation and ORR could halt reactions due to too strong binding, while surface structures could prevent reactions by binding too weakly. AES results confirm segregation behavior and activation barriers for adsorbate-induced segregation, bridging the materials gap between single crystal and polycrystalline substrates.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulations revealed Pd segregation to the outer layers and a monotonic increase in Pt concentration from surfaces to the bulk, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms preferentially segregate to (100) facets over (111) facets, affecting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer is protective, shielding the PtFe alloy from corrosion. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming the protective layer. This has implications for catalytic properties in fuel cell applications, with ongoing research focusing on the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, particularly CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt. This enhancement is attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not to Pt interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. Pt is a crucial cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, yet its slow ORR kinetics limits efficiency. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, have shown enhanced ORR activity due to surface segregation, leading to a pure Pt-skin on the outer layer. This segregation enhances stability and catalytic performance. Au exhibits strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au segregation is thermodynamically favorable, whereas Co tends to migrate inward, making continuous Co segregation unlikely. Surface segregation, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al., boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling the reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Modern studies have elucidated segregation trends and surface composition in Pt alloys, revealing critical processes like interlayer migration and vacancy movement. The segregation model explains these phenomena, highlighting the exothermic Au segregation and endothermic Co segregation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. The introduction of 3d metals alters surface adsorption properties, enhancing the stability of Pt-skin surfaces, which is protective against dissolution, especially under adsorbate coverage. This stability enhancement is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, altering adsorbate binding strength, leading to enhanced catalytic properties, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and improved electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing alters the structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, changing surface morphology from Pt islands to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys. This transformation significantly impacts adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensemble composition and electronic interactions between metals, affecting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble effects for D adsorption and electronic interaction effects for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to local structure and composition, even for chemically active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species dominates the surface, significantly affects materials science and surface chemistry, altering physical and chemical properties. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-based bimetallic alloys, with some platinum replaced by cheaper metals, have been explored as alternative catalysts. Surface segregation notably modifies catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities in Pt alloys with 3d metals. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt for ORR. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "The stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, are influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, affecting catalytic properties. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a surface-confined nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface with sufficient Ag, establishing uniform stoichiometry. AES studies indicate Ag mixing with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, suggesting that reaction conditions impact catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit significant surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. These Pt-skin surfaces also show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit thermodynamic stability and structural dynamics influenced by reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, yet dissociate H2 more easily, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions. Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. NSAs allow weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation. Stability assessment involves a two-step procedure: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation can be estimated by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the pure solute and host. Real NSAs may deviate from ideal models, but these deviations do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence stability, surface segregation, and structure. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt surface segregation by making segregation energies more negative, enhancing Pt's presence on the surface. Conversely, Ag, Au, and Pd doping leads to positive segregation energies, suppressing Pt surface segregation. The surface energy, strain, and heat of solution effects collectively determine the extent of Pt surface segregation in Pt3Ni/M surfaces. Replacing Ni with promoting transition metals strengthens Pt segregation, while substituting with Ag, Au, and Pd can prevent it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "The stability of Pt-based alloys, like Pt-3d alloys, is significantly affected by oxygen coverage under electrochemical conditions. Alloys are generally less stable than pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is essential for achieving high activity and stability. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution. However, adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. This is because Pt atoms at vacancies have more active d-states, bonding more strongly with O atoms than terrace Pt atoms. The second layer atoms exposed at the surface vacancy can form stronger OM bonds compared to OPt bonds. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The barrier to OOH dissociation is crucial for OR activity. The stability of Pt alloys follows the order Pt2Mo > Pt > Pt2Ag > Pt2Pd > Pt2Nb > Pt2Ti > Pt2Sc > Pt2Zr, with only Pt2Mo showing higher stability than pure Pt at 1.05 V. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the transition state for OOH dissociation determining the reaction pathway. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a low Mo content (below 30%) providing higher stability at high potentials but not better activity than Pt at 0.9 V, while a high Mo content (above 30%) destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. The results add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Crystal planes and oxygen exposure influence the thermodynamics and kinetics of 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, affecting subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations predict this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. These factors determine surface segregation and structural configuration, crucial for catalytic performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with their enhanced surface structural complexity, exhibit superior catalytic performance over monometallic catalysts, especially when Pt-skin surfaces are coupled with 3d transition metals in the subsurface region. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, the stability of surface structures under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum under annealing. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate surface segregation and structural dynamics, impacting catalytic performance. Under reductive conditions, 3d transition metals (TMs) reside in subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size. Oxidizing conditions, however, induce 3d TM surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism. The interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity is crucial for alloy catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation favors larger atomic radius metals, like Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu, to relieve strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, depending on gas redox potential. These reversible structural changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions, attributed to the electronic structure modification by subsurface Fe. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Catalyst structure can transform under varying conditions, affecting performance in applications like oxygen reduction reactions and hydrogenation. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times greater activity in oxygen reduction reactions. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is critical for catalysis, influenced by thermodynamics and reaction conditions. It significantly alters catalytic activities, as seen in enhanced ORR activities compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation's role in unusual catalytic activity has spurred extensive research. While studies often focus on vacuum conditions, understanding segregation under surface adsorption, which can modify surface composition and catalytic properties, is paramount for applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies using STM and AES revealed that PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys exhibit almost complete restoration of original composition after Ru deposition and re-alloying, indicating surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. The stability difference may stem from lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation preference is linked to surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), aligning with Pt and Pd segregation. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) enhances surface segregation. Preparation steps, including Pt/Pd deposition, surface alloy formation, Ru deposition, and re-alloying, were studied for floating behavior. The probability of Pt/Pd dissolution in the subsurface region was estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) may be due to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals that oxygen adsorbs most energetically at the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys on (211) surfaces, leading to surface segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) systems. Notably, Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. The arrangement of atoms in the catalyst's surface layers significantly affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface atomic distribution and segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence bimetallic catalyst stability, particularly in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy (1.13 vs 2.48 J/m2 for Pt) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface on Pt (Quote 1). Immiscibility at Au compositions >17% suggests Au stays atop Pt clusters. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters (Quote 2). Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic preference to bind CO at the surface (Quote 3). For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure (Quote 8). These factors impact catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    