Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Thermodynamic stability, structural dynamics, and catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying reaction conditions, with emphasis on Pt-based alloy systems'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, verified experimentally. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends predict subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations in oxygen. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental results on single crystals apply to polycrystalline substrates, highlighting the importance of understanding stability in reacting environments. Activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation vary by crystal facet. Linear trends in stability correlate with d-band center differences, applicable beyond Pt3d alloys.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the surface in PtPd nanoparticles, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms show a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets, influencing catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. This layer, formed by increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, crucial for its catalytic performance in fuel cells. Ongoing research examines the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe at 50% content enhances electrocatalytic activity 25-fold compared to pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, highlighting the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures under varying conditions in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting the exploration of Pt alloys with other transition metals for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the outermost layer, is crucial for enhanced stability. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface enrichment, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation process contrasts with Co's endothermic process, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. Surface segregation's role is evident in the four times higher ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt. Modern experimental and computational techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, revealing the critical process of interlayer migration and vacancy movement for understanding the rearrangement process in acidic solutions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals' incorporation into Pt(111) enhances surface stability by altering adsorption properties, particularly in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. 3d subsurface atoms protectively modify electronic and geometric properties, boosting catalytic performance, such as increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation aids in removing adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate. Stability enhancement is linked to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, altering adsorption properties. This change, influenced by ensemble and electronic interactions, impacts catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to surface structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, an efficient catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, sees enhanced ORR activities in alloys with 3d metals due to surface segregation. For instance, Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, attributed to modified electronic structures. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force of surface segregation, which is also governed by temperature and adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, like temperature, significantly influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, impacting catalytic properties in Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag80Pt20 elongated 2D-adislands form on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces. Annealing above 600 K induces AgPt exchange, creating a nanophasic alloy that spreads uniformly. Higher temperatures enable Ag to mix with bulk Pt, illustrating how reaction conditions modify the catalyst's structure and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and improving electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs exhibit unique hydrogen binding, weakly binding atomic hydrogen like noble metals while easily dissociating H2, crucial for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed by considering composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates, including hydrogen, can induce surface segregation, with hydrogen's tendency estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage, requiring precise surface structure control for optimal catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions determine stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration. Transition metals enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Segregation is influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, depending on the doped element. Stronger Pt segregation occurs when Ni is replaced by transition metals, while Pt segregation is prevented when Ni is replaced by Ag, Au, and Pd.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, the stability of Pt-based alloys, notably Pt2Mo, is significantly influenced by oxygen coverage. Zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (0.9 V) is crucial for achieving high activity and stability. Pt atoms at surface vacancies bond more strongly with O atoms, facilitating Pt removal. Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potentials (1.05 V), with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) and a key barrier for OOH dissociation. The ORR on Pt2Mo follows a similar profile to Pt, with the aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitating the reaction. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated CO pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, forming a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is driven by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, highlighting the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts oxygen's impact on subsurface 3d metal stability in Pt-based catalysts, affecting surface segregation, structural dynamics, and ORR activity, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, with 3d transition metals in the subsurface, exhibit superior catalytic performance due to enhanced surface structural complexity. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, offering opportunities to tune catalytic activity and selectivity, as observed in reversible processes of monometallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing in vacuum, indicating subsurface stability. Pt3d alloys often exhibit a thermodynamically preferred Pt skin. Segregation energy (Eseg) determines surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in Pt(shell)/M(core) alloys. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like N or O, significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions promote surface segregation. These dynamics enhance catalytic activity, as atomic dispersed 3d TMs on Pt(111) surfaces boost CO oxidation, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, tunable by gas treatments. Surface segregation, favoring larger atomic radius metals, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics, while oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, encapsulating Pt surfaces with oxides. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, significantly impacting real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit 100% selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 [1], and Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2]. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces are attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing high-performance, low-cost catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly enhances catalytic activities, particularly in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), outperforming pure Pt by four times with Pt-skin structures. Adsorbates under operating conditions alter segregation trends and surface composition, critically affecting catalytic properties. Studying segregation under adsorbates is paramount for understanding the catalytic performance of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies confirmed significant surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys post Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability is influenced by lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru > Pt > Pd) and size mismatch between guest (Pt, Pd) and host (Ru) metals. Distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences, impacting the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts under varying reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen preferentially adsorbs at the bridge site on (211) surfaces of Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure in the first 23 layers significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding surface segregation in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, while CO adsorption promotes Pt surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's thermodynamic advantage in binding CO. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces lacking Pt ensembles, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, while PtTiPt is most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in various environments. Experimental results confirm DFT predictions, showing activation barriers for segregation. Sabatier's principle suggests subsurface structures with optimal binding properties may halt reactions on surface structures. All bimetallic systems have preferred configurations in each environment, with subsurface configurations favored in vacuum and hydrogen, and surface configurations in oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming enriched shells with a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, PtFe alloys develop a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and rearrange surface Pt, forming a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for the catalytic properties of PtFe alloys in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, especially in CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, reaction conditions notably impact stability, surface segregation, and structure, affecting catalytic properties. For instance, Pt-Fe alloys exhibit enhanced electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, not just interatomic distance or surface roughening.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability and catalytic properties of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt, a critical cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to sluggish ORR kinetics. Pt-based alloys, including Pt and transition metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activity, attributed to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring Au segregation, while Co is unlikely to enrich PtCo surfaces, as it migrates to the second layer more readily. Pt-skin surfaces, as observed by Stamenkovic et al., exhibit a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Surface segregation trends have been identified for many Pt alloy systems, with the dissolution of metal atoms critical to the rearrangement process. The segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is well interpreted by a kinetic model. For PtAu, segregation is exothermic, whereas for PtCo, it is endothermic, making Co segregation to the clean Pt(111) surface both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys. 3d metals boost surface adsorption, enhancing Pt-skin stability and catalytic performance. This stability, observed in clean and oxygen-covered surfaces, is linked to a positive potential shift, preventing Pt atom dissolution. 3d metals alter electronic and geometric properties, affecting adsorbate binding strength, leading to improved catalytic properties like a higher oxygen reduction reaction rate. Surface segregation in Pt-3d alloys aids in removing adsorbed species, boosting the ORR rate. Pt-skin surfaces from alloys exhibit greater stability than pure Pt under adsorbate coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands into PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. This highlights the critical role of surface structure in catalytic properties, especially for metals like Ru and Pt, affecting probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure and composition.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly impacts properties like permeation and catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells, has seen efforts to find alternatives through Pt-based bimetallic alloys. These alloys, especially when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals, exhibit enhanced ORR activities due to surface segregation. For example, Stamenkovic et al. observed that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys have a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects, governed by theoretical approaches and conditions like temperature and the presence of adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) surfaces, which transform into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry after annealing above 600 K. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, highlighting the critical role of reaction conditions in bimetallic catalysts' structural dynamics and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity. These Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "NSAs, notably Pt-based alloys, exhibit exceptional hydrogen binding and H2 dissociation properties, pivotal for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Their stability can be assessed by evaluating vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates, particularly hydrogen, can induce surface segregation by attracting alloy components they bind strongly to. A reliable estimate of hydrogen's tendency to cause segregation is made by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer potential for high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, aiding in selective hydrogenation reactions and hydrogen storage, crucial for pharmaceuticals and hydrogen economy.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "On Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Pt segregation is influenced by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution from the doped element. Lattice mismatch and heat of solution also play a role. Substituting Ni with promoting transition metals boosts Pt surface segregation, while replacing it with Ag, Au, and Pd inhibits it.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based alloys, alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, reducing surface Pt atom segregation. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies. Pt2Mo skin alloys achieve optimal stability and activity, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction than Pt, and the ideal Mo content is 30%. Maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for high activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. The results suggest using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, with implications for catalytic properties in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, oxygen's impact on 3d metal segregation, subsurface stability, and ORR activity varies by crystal plane, crucial for catalytic performance. DFT calculations confirm these dynamics, highlighting crystal orientation's role in Pt-3d alloys' stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Bimetallic catalysts, with enhanced surface complexity, outperform monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallics, characterized by Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals, demonstrate superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes in monometallic catalysts under redox shifts, offering potential to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals PtNiPt(111) as more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with hydrogen influencing segregation based on binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity via a bi-functional mechanism, highlighting the interplay between structure and reaction environment in catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, as observed in various gases (1,2). Surface segregation favors Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to its larger atomic radius (4,15). Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation (16), whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding (6). Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces (8,18). Reversible mass transport processes, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial in real catalytic processes (9,20,24).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalyst stability and structure, especially in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2 and excel in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies surface Pt's electronic structure, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in high-performance catalyst design. Pt-skin structures may degrade under oxidative conditions, leading to Fe surface segregation. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction, with Fe49Pt51 alloys 25 times more active. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under varying atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR), due to thermodynamic preferences. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit significantly enhanced ORR activities over pure Pt, with surface segregation closely tied to this enhancement. Pt-skin surfaces on Pt3Co alloys show an ORR rate four times that of pure Pt. Studying segregation trends under surface adsorption is critical, as adsorbates can alter these trends and surface composition, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal complete surface segregation of buried Pd and Pt post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, with slight Pt loss. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) vs. Pt (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with Pt and Pd segregation trends. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) vs. layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to lower Pd content, 2D distribution, or Ru bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, whereas Pt/Ir(core) uniquely displays antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface structure, significantly affected by segregation, is crucial for catalytic activity in the first 23 layers of alloy catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Lower surface free energy and immiscibility favor Au's retention on Pt surfaces, while CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms the thermodynamic favorability of Pt's surface diffusion to bind CO. Contiguous Pt sites are crucial for CO oxidation, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, as O2 dissociation requires neighboring Pt sites. These insights significantly impact the catalytic properties and performance of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but 3d atoms segregate to the surface with oxygen. PtNiPt resists, PtTiPt succumbs to oxygen-induced segregation. Stability trends correlate thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers, verified experimentally. Δεd screens alloys for stability. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures, and vice versa. DFT and experiments confirm subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface configurations favored with oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably PtPd alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the surface and a Pt concentration gradient, forming Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets, impacting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, predominantly with (111)-oriented facets, as observed using in situ electrochemical STM. This layer is formed by the dissolution of Fe and rearrangement of Pt, shielding the alloy from corrosion and enhancing its stability and catalytic properties, crucial for fuel cell applications. Ongoing studies are exploring its electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts, demonstrating the influence of alloy composition on catalytic properties under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, surface segregation under varying reaction conditions enhances stability and catalytic efficiency, crucial for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt-skin formation on the surface of Pt-based alloys like PtAu and PtCo boosts ORR activity, with Pt-skin surfaces demonstrating a fourfold increase in reaction rate compared to pure Pt. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu, unlike Co in PtCo, where surface migration is thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Recent studies have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface components in Pt alloys, highlighting the importance of surface segregation for enhanced catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. Incorporating 3d metals boosts surface adsorption properties and stability of Pt-skin surfaces, evident under clean and oxygen-covered conditions. This stability is linked to oxygen adsorption strength, highlighting the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms. The presence of 3d metals modifies electronic and geometric properties, enhancing adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance, such as an increased oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing the ORR rate, and the stability enhancement of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces from isolated Pt islands to surface alloys, significantly altering adsorption properties and impacting catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects are crucial upon alloy formation, with surface structure and composition playing a significant role. Probe molecule adsorption sensitivity to local structure highlights the importance of surface configuration in bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface over others, dramatically affects catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt. Theoretical approaches and temperature, along with the presence of adsorbates, govern surface segregation, influencing the catalytic properties of these alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of silver form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above a certain temperature promotes alloying at the perimeter of the Ag adislands, leading to the formation of a nanophasic AgPt alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, establishing a uniform stoichiometry. Temperature-dependent AES studies reveal mixing of Ag with bulk Pt at elevated temperatures, indicating that reaction conditions influence structural dynamics and stability, affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt-based alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity. These Pt-skin surfaces show improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability and surface dynamics under varying conditions. NSAs bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. New NSAs are developed using density functional theory, predicting catalytic behavior. Select NSAs permit weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, offering high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is assessed in two steps: composition in vacuum and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen's tendency to induce surface segregation is estimated by comparing segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Real NSAs may deviate from models, but this doesn't significantly impact adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques, is needed to fully benefit from NSAs' unique catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, doping elements V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface concentration, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it, influenced by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. This affects catalytic properties, with promoting elements leading to stronger surface concentration and suppressing elements preventing Pt from reaching the surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which makes surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution (Quote 1). Among Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as a favorable element for alloying with Pt, forming a stable surface at high potentials (Quote 9). The optimum Mo content in PtxMo alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity (Quote 19).", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings open new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, crystal planes significantly influence oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation and subsurface stability, affecting catalytic properties. DFT calculations predict stability under oxygen, impacting ORR activity, which varies with crystal plane orientation, crucial for catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions critically affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. These catalysts feature enhanced surface structural complexity, pivotal for catalytic properties. Pt-based bimetallic catalysts with Pt-skin surfaces and subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential, offer tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, with negative Eseg promoting admetal surface migration and positive Eseg favoring subsurface retention. Hydrogen-induced segregation is influenced by Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen can destabilize subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as seen in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity provide a small shift in thermodynamic potential, while strong electronegativity can outweigh the potential for retaining subsurface configurations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-3d alloys, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions dictate surface segregation and catalytic activity. Reductive conditions drive 3d TMs into subsurface layers, while oxidizing conditions cause surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high activity for CO oxidation, highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, such as PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation favors Pt over Co, Ni, and Cu due to its larger atomic radius, facilitating strain release. Hydrogen's weak bonding does not alter the thermodynamic driving force for segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption induces 3d transition metal segregation onto the top surface. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, forming oxides that encapsulate Pt surfaces, impacting catalytic properties. These reversible changes are significant in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and hydrogenation, attributed to subsurface Fe's influence on surface Pt's electronic structure, impacting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in high-performance catalyst design. Pt-skin structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys demonstrating 25 times higher activity. Optimizing Fe-Pt structures for catalysis requires controlled surface configurations and understanding stability under varying conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts catalytic activities, notably in the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), exceeding pure Pt performance. Studying segregation under surface adsorption is crucial, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and catalytic properties. This research is pivotal for optimizing Pt-based catalysts in diverse applications, highlighting the significant role of surface segregation in enhancing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "A study using STM and AES reveals strong surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, with near-complete restoration of original composition post-Ru deposition and re-alloying, except for slight Pt loss. Surface alloy stability is influenced by Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences favoring Pt and Pd, and size mismatch between guest and host metals. Preparation steps impact surface morphology and structure, with distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content, 2D component distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, impacting surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) uniquely shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic distribution, critical for catalytic activity, is notably influenced by segregation, affecting the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability, with Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility favoring its surface retention on Pt. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters, as density functional theory confirms. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is essential, explaining the absence of oxidation on pure Au surfaces due to the lack of Pt ensembles, crucial insights for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces surface segregation, verified experimentally. PtNiPt shows highest resistance, PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability. A Brnsted-Evans-Polanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need for understanding stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT and experimental results on single crystal surfaces apply to polycrystalline substrates, showing general stability trends for bimetallic systems in different environments.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect stability, surface segregation, and structure in bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. In PtPd nanoparticles, Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the core, creating Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms favor (100) facets over (111) facets in the nanoparticle shell, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, Fe dissolution in PtFe alloys leads to the formation of a protective Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This layer shields the PtFe alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation processes, as ongoing research suggests.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, 25 times higher than pure Pt. This is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, crucial for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells, demonstrating the catalytic implications of bimetallic surface structures.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity. Surface segregation leads to a pure Pt-skin, improving stability and boosting ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, a thermodynamically favorable process, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where surface segregation is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. These findings are consistent with studies showing enhanced ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of annealed alloy surfaces. The exothermic nature of Au segregation and the endothermic process for Co highlight the role of thermodynamics in surface segregation, influencing the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals enhance surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces over pure Pt, especially under oxygen adsorption. This stability, attributed to the protective role of 3d subsurface atoms, correlates with oxygen adsorption strength. The presence of 3d metals improves adsorbate binding strength, boosting catalytic properties like oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation facilitates the removal of adsorbed species, further increasing reaction rates. The stability of Pt-skin surfaces is associated with a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution to higher potentials.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, altering adsorption properties and electronic interactions, which significantly affects catalytic activity and selectivity. Surface structure and composition, as observed, influence adsorption, demonstrating sensitivity to local structure. Annealing-induced changes in surface morphology lead to altered CO and deuterium adsorption, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-3d alloys, is influenced by thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, significantly impacting catalytic properties. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface, alters physical and chemical properties, notably enhancing catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Alternative catalysts, focusing on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, have shown enhanced ORR activities, particularly when Pt is alloyed with 3d metals. Surface segregation plays a pivotal role, as evidenced by Stamenkovic et al.'s finding that ORR on Pt-skin structures of annealed Pt3Co alloys is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects. Theoretical approaches and reaction conditions, including temperature and adsorbates, govern surface segregation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. At room temperature, elongated 2D-adislands of Ag80Pt20 form on a Pt(1 0 0) surface. Annealing above 600 K triggers AgPt exchange, leading to a nanophasic alloy confined to the surface layer. With sufficient Ag, the alloy spreads across the surface, achieving uniform stoichiometry. AES studies confirm Ag mixing with bulk Pt at high temperatures, illustrating how thermodynamic factors and reaction conditions influence structural dynamics and catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces. Pt-skin surfaces show increased electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind atomic hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them pivotal for hydrogen-related chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory assists in developing NSAs for these applications, with some NSAs enabling weak hydrogen binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. This is advantageous for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds and hydrogen separation/storage. Stability is evaluated in a two-step process: assessing composition in vacuum and then accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen can induce surface segregation, estimated by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. Deviations from ideal NSA models exist but do not significantly alter adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of surface structure is crucial for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, indicating advancements in nanofabrication techniques are on the horizon.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Doping Pt3Ni (111) surfaces with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir boosts Pt surface segregation, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd hinder it. Surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution determine the degree of Pt segregation. Promoting transition metals, when replacing Ni, enhance Pt segregation, while suppressing metals prevent Pt from surfacing.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, notably Pt-3d alloys, exhibit enhanced stability due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms less prone to segregation or dissolution [1]. Under electrochemical conditions, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials, such as 0.9 V, is critical for achieving high activity and stability [8]. Among various Pt2M alloys, Mo is identified as an ideal element for alloying with Pt, forming a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials [9]. Pt2Mo has a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction and a key barrier towards OOH dissociation, crucial for OR activity [10]. The Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity [20].", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. This discovery opens new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content, suggesting the use of molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, likely extending to various coinage/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced segregation of 3d metals in Pt-based systems varies by crystal plane, affecting subsurface metal stability. Pt(111) and Pt(100) exhibit differing stability under oxygen, impacting oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, crucial for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Bimetallics, with complex surface structures, outperform monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt-based alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity under varying redox conditions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) under annealing, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) dictates surface composition, influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage. Oxygen-induced segregation is also predicted for specific Pt-based alloy surfaces, highlighting the role of reaction conditions in determining surface structure and catalytic behavior.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "Under reductive conditions, 3d TMs prefer subsurface layers in Pt-based catalysts due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. This dynamic is crucial for catalytic activity, as Pt(111) surfaces enriched with atomic dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes in response to environmental gas redox potential, impacting stability and catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring metals with larger atomic radii like Pt, is common. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation thermodynamics. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong oxygen bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, are crucial for catalytic processes in Pt-based bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems like Fe-Pt alloys. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Pt-skin surfaces, with subsurface Fe, have unique catalytic properties due to modified electronic structures, enhancing adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, crucial for designing efficient catalysts. Fe-Pt alloys, particularly Fe49Pt51, are 25 times more active than pure Pt in catalysis, demonstrating the importance of optimized surface configurations and understanding stability under different atmospheres.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, driven by thermodynamic preferences, boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities, with Pt-skin surfaces showing reaction rates four times higher than pure Pt. This phenomenon, closely tied to enhanced catalytic activities, underscores the importance of studying segregation trends under surface adsorption, common in catalytic reactions, to optimize properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface alloys PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) exhibit surface segregation of Pd and Pt after Ru deposition and re-alloying, with minor Pt loss. Lower Pd content (44%) compared to Pt (70%) influences stability. Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences (Ru(0001) > Pt(111) > Pd(111)) and size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001). Experimental steps reveal distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001), attributed to Pd content and bonding differences. A Boltzmann approach estimates the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution during surface alloy formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen prefers the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based alloys, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) exhibit segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) shows antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution critically affects catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's role in surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, as per quote 1. CO adsorption, as noted in quote 2, promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory, as stated in quote 3, confirms Pt's surface migration for CO binding is thermodynamically favorable. Contiguous Pt sites are crucial for CO oxidation, explaining why it doesn't occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, as detailed in quotes 6-8.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom surface segregation, verified experimentally on Pt3dPt(111) and polycrystalline Pt. PtNiPt resists oxygen-induced segregation most, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd aids in screening alloys for stability in different environments. A BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship correlates thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in various conditions. Binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties in subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface PtMPt(111) stability in vacuum and with hydrogen, surface MPtPt(111) with oxygen. Experimental measurements verify subsurface 3d atom segregation and quantify activation barriers. Linear trends show thermodynamic stability correlation beyond Pt3d alloys. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. The trend predicts thermodynamically preferred configurations in each environment, crucial for catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulations reveal that Pd segregates to the outer layers, forming Pd-enriched shells, while Pt concentration increases towards the bulk, creating Pt-enriched cores in PtPd nanoparticles. Pd atoms prefer (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly affecting catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. Potential cycles enhance Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, creating a protective layer that shields the alloy from corrosion. This has significant implications for the alloy's catalytic properties in fuel cells, with ongoing research focusing on its electrocatalytic behavior, particularly in CO adsorption and oxidation, as indicated by the study of the Pt skin layer's adsorption and oxidation properties.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe increases electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content, which is 25x more active than pure Pt. This enhancement, attributed to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, is critical for high-performance cathode electrocatalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, especially in Pt-based systems. Pt, a critical cathode electrocatalyst in PEM fuel cells, faces efficiency limitations due to slow oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) kinetics. Recent studies highlight enhanced ORR activity in Pt-based alloys, attributed to surface segregation that forms a pure Pt-skin. Au exhibits strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, thermodynamically favoring surface migration, while Co struggles to enrich PtCo surfaces due to kinetic and thermodynamic barriers. Surface segregation boosts ORR activity on Pt-skin surfaces, quadrupling reaction rates compared to pure Pt, as demonstrated by Stamenkovic et al. This highlights the critical role of surface segregation in the catalytic properties of Pt-based alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions stabilize Pt-skin surfaces, surpassing pure Pt in clean and oxygen-covered conditions. 3d subsurface atoms protectively enhance catalytic properties, notably increasing the oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability, facilitating adsorbate removal and boosting overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms Pt islands on Ru(0001) into PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in ensemble composition and electronic interactions. Surface structure, influenced by local composition, critically affects catalytic activity and selectivity, highlighting structural dynamics' importance in bimetallic systems.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, significantly impacts catalytic properties due to thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. This phenomenon, where one metal species enriches the surface or sub-surface layers, alters physical and chemical properties, notably enhancing catalytic activities. Pt, a crucial catalyst in reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Efforts to find Pt alternatives have focused on bimetallic alloys, where Pt is partially replaced by cheaper metals. The catalytic properties of these alloys are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by chemical composition, enhancing catalytic effects. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. found that Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys exhibit a four-fold increase in ORR activity compared to pure Pt. The enhanced activities are attributed to modified electronic structures through surface segregation, rather than geometric effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, notably temperature, significantly impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0), transforming into a nanophasic alloy with uniform stoichiometry upon annealing at elevated temperatures. AES studies reveal that higher temperatures promote AgPt exchange, affecting structural dynamics and stability, with direct implications for catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing oxygen reduction reaction activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Near-surface alloys (NSAs), notably in Pt-based systems, exhibit exceptional hydrogen binding properties, crucial for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. These NSAs can bind atomic hydrogen weakly while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogenation activity at low temperatures. Stability is assessed through a two-step procedure, considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates can induce surface segregation, influenced by the energy difference in hydrogen binding between solute and host. A reliable estimate of hydrogen-induced segregation can be made by comparing the segregation energy of the solute to the difference in hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and host. Most solute/host transition metal pairs do not show hydrogen-induced surface segregation at low temperatures and pressures. Oxygen, sulphur, and CO have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation than hydrogen. Deviations from ideal NSA structures do not significantly affect adsorbate behavior trends. Precise control of metal catalyst surface structure is essential for maximizing NSA catalytic properties, with advancements in nanofabrication techniques promising improved NSA development. NSAs offer potential for selective hydrogenation reactions and hydrogen separation and storage, benefiting pharmaceutical compound production.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic Pt-based catalysts, thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence Pt surface segregation, stability, and structure. Transition metals like V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promote Pt segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd suppress it. Pt segregation is determined by relative energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution. Replacing Ni with promoting metals enhances Pt segregation, impacting catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Pt-based alloys, especially Pt-3d alloys, show reduced stability compared to pure Pt under similar oxygen coverage, emphasizing the need for zero oxygen coverage at working potentials for optimal activity and stability. Alloying with Mo in Pt2Mo enhances stability and lowers the kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction, crucial for OR activity. The Pt d-band structure stabilizes upon alloying, hindering surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Oxygen facilitates Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial surface. Surface vacancies in Pt2Ti skin alloys with OTi bonding are more stable than those with OPt bonding. Pt2Mo exhibits higher stability than pure Pt at high potentials, with a similar ORR profile, where OOH dissociation is a key kinetic parameter. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage facilitate the ORR on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with a 30% Mo content being optimal. Lower Mo content may increase stability but not activity, while higher Mo content destabilizes the alloy and reduces activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly causes the less reactive Cu to segregate to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This behavior is rationalized by the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings open up new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys. Adsorbate-induced surface changes can be a tool for engineering alloy surfaces, impacting catalytic properties and performance in various applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based systems, crystal planes' impact on oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation dictates subsurface stability. DFT predicts this stability in Pt(111) and Pt(100) under oxygen, crucial for ORR activity and catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with complex surface structures, surpass monometallics in catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals in Pt alloys exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structures dynamically change during reactions, akin to reversible processes under varying redox conditions, offering tunability of catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, impacting catalytic properties. Annealing reveals the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure's thermodynamic superiority over surface NiPtPt(111) in vacuum. Pt3d alloys in fuel cells often exhibit a Pt skin, indicating a thermodynamic preference for Pt-terminated surfaces. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), with hydrogen influencing segregation based on Eseg and hydrogen-binding energy differences. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, as observed in specific Pt-based alloy surfaces. Adsorbates with strong Pauling electronegativity, like oxygen, can significantly alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions promote surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands. Pt(111) surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the structure-environment-activity interplay.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, including PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, impacting catalytic properties. Surface segregation, favoring Pt due to its larger atomic radius, is common. Oxygen adsorption on Pt-M surfaces induces 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding, while hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't alter segregation thermodynamics. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions are reversible, influenced by reaction gases' redox potential, crucial in real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity in CO oxidation and high activity in hydrogenation reactions. The unique catalytic properties of Pt-skin surfaces, influenced by subsurface Fe's effect on surface Pt's electronic structure, enhance adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in the design of efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts significantly boosts catalytic activities, particularly in the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), outperforming pure Pt. This phenomenon, linked to enhanced catalytic performance, has attracted extensive research. Studies often focus on surface structures under vacuum, but adsorbates in reaction environments can significantly influence segregation trends and surface composition, affecting catalytic properties. Therefore, understanding segregation under surface adsorption is crucial for optimizing Pt-based alloys, as evidenced by the fourfold increase in ORR rate on Pt-skin surfaces compared to pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal that after Ru deposition and re-alloying, the original composition is nearly restored, with Pd and Pt segregating to the surface, though some Pt is lost. The stability variance is attributed to Pd's lower content (44%) versus Pt's (70%). Surface segregation is influenced by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with Pt and Pd's segregation tendency. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, component distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen adsorption on Pt-based (211) surfaces favors the bridge site over the (100) step, influencing surface segregation. Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co(core) show segregation, while Pt/Ir(core) exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorbed. Surface atomic distribution in catalytic alloys significantly impacts activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation's effect on surface structure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact bimetallic catalyst stability and catalytic properties in Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption at room temperature promotes Pt's surface diffusion, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's diffusion to bind CO. CO oxidation, requiring contiguous Pt sites, does not occur on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors critically influence catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predictions and experimental evidence confirm the stability of Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface. PtNiPt shows highest resistance to oxygen-induced segregation, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Δεd values can screen alloys for stability, correlating thermodynamic stability with kinetic barriers. Empirical equations predict stability trends in various conditions, with subsurface structures preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, and surface structures favored with oxygen. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT results and experimental measurements on single crystal surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrates, bridging the materials gap.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based alloys. Simulation results reveal Pd segregation to the outer layers and increasing Pt concentration towards the bulk in PtPd nanoparticles, creating Pd-enriched shells and Pt-enriched cores. Pd atoms show a preference for (100) facets over (111) facets on the nanoparticle shell, significantly influencing catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific reaction conditions, a protective Pt skin layer forms on PtFe alloys, as observed by in situ electrochemical STM. This (111)-oriented layer shields the alloy from corrosion, impacting its catalytic properties in fuel cells. The layer's formation, indicated by the disappearance of a Fe2+/Fe3+ redox peak, suggests increased Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement. Ongoing research explores the Pt skin layer's electrocatalytic behavior, including CO adsorption and oxidation, offering new insights for electrode materials in fuel cells.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe boosts electrocatalytic activity 25-fold at 50% Fe content, crucial for fuel cells. This enhancement is due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface, underscoring the role of surface structure in catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, particularly Pt-based systems. Pt's sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in PEM fuel cells limits efficiency, prompting research into Pt-based alloys for enhanced ORR activity. Surface segregation, where a pure Pt-skin forms on the alloy surface, is crucial for enhanced stability and catalytic efficiency. Au shows strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys, where Au's segregation is thermodynamically favorable, while Co's is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive. Studies confirm that ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces, with a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends in Pt alloys, characterizing surface and subsurface regions, and the segregation process, including interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is critical for understanding the rearrangement process in acidic solutions.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, 3d metals bolster Pt-skin surface stability, shielding against oxygen adsorption and delaying Pt atom dissolution. This stability enhancement, attributed to 3d subsurface atoms, boosts potential, enhancing the oxygen reduction reaction rate and electrochemical stability. Surface segregation aids in the removal of adsorbed species, further elevating the ORR rate.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing transforms bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces into surface alloys, altering adsorption properties due to changes in adsorption ensembles and electronic interactions. This transformation impacts catalytic activity and selectivity, demonstrating the importance of surface structure in bimetallic surfaces.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems, significantly impacts catalytic activities. Pt, a critical catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Pt alloys with 3d metals exhibit enhanced ORR activities, with surface segregation playing a pivotal role. For example, Pt-skin structures on Pt3Co alloys show a reaction rate four times higher than pure Pt, highlighting the influence of surface segregation on catalytic efficiency. Theoretical approaches help elucidate the driving force behind this phenomenon, and surface segregation is also governed by temperature and the presence of adsorbates.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions, particularly temperature, significantly affect the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, impacting their catalytic properties. In Pt-based systems like Pt-3d alloys, temperature changes the structure of silver on a Pt(1 0 0) surface, forming elongated 2D-adislands at room temperature. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, creating a uniform nanophasic alloy across the surface. Elevated temperatures facilitate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, illustrating how reaction conditions can alter the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, affecting their performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and boosting electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. NSAs (near-surface alloys) bind hydrogen weakly, akin to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, making them pivotal for hydrogen-related reactions in chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Density functional theory aids in developing NSAs for these applications. Stability is assessed in two steps: considering vacuum composition and hydrogen adsorption effects. Hydrogen-induced segregation can be predicted by comparing the solute's segregation energy to the hydrogen binding energy difference between the solute and host. NSAs offer high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, beneficial for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation and storage, highlighting the need for precise control of metal catalyst surface structure for optimal catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based alloys. Transition metals such as V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir enhance Pt surface segregation on Pt3Ni (111) surfaces, whereas Ag, Au, and Pd restrict it. This is governed by surface energy, strain, and heat of solution, which are influenced by the doped element. Promoting metals facilitate Pt segregation, while suppressing metals limit Pt's surface presence.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. Clean alloy surfaces are more stable due to the stabilization of the Pt d-band, which hinders surface Pt atom segregation or dissolution. Adsorbed O atoms facilitate Pt removal by stabilizing surface vacancies more strongly than the initial perfect surface. Pt2Mo stands out as a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt, making OOH dissociation a key kinetic parameter for OR activity. The optimum Mo content in PtxMo skin alloys is 30%, achieving the best balance of stability and activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated pressures and temperatures, CO adsorption unexpectedly pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamic engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, applicable to a variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen-induced 3d metal segregation in Pt-based catalysts, influenced by crystal plane, impacts subsurface stability and ORR activity, as DFT calculations predict, highlighting structural dynamics' role in catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems, feature enhanced surface structural complexity, critical for catalytic properties. Pt-skin surfaces with subsurface 3d transition metals exhibit superior catalytic performance. Surface structure dynamics, influenced by redox potential changes, enable tunable catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, PtNiPt(111) surfaces are more thermodynamically stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are favored in Pt3d alloys. Surface composition is determined by segregation energy (Eseg), influenced by hydrogen binding energies. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface, while adsorbates with weak electronegativity have a minor effect. Strong adsorbates like oxygen significantly alter surface configurations at high coverage, outweighing the thermodynamic potential for retaining subsurface configurations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-based bimetallic catalysts, 3d TMs under reductive conditions favor subsurface layers due to higher surface energy and smaller size [1], while oxidizing conditions promote surface segregation, forming oxidized 3d TM islands [2]. Pt surfaces with dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity [3], highlighting the interplay between structure, environment, and catalytic activity [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu, exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential. Surface segregation favors metals with larger atomic radii, like Pt, to release strain. Hydrogen's weak bonding with 3d transition metals doesn't affect segregation, whereas oxygen adsorption can induce 3d metal segregation due to strong bonding. Oxidative environments can oxidize 3d metals, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces. Mass transport processes in oxidation or reduction reactions are reversible, significantly impacting catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, while Pt-skin structures are active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons. Subsurface Fe modifies the electronic structure of surface Pt, affecting adsorption and reaction characteristics. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surfaces reveals the structure-catalytic property relationship, aiding in designing efficient catalysts. Fe-Pt structures with subsurface Fe show higher activity than pure Pt in oxygen reduction reactions, with Fe49Pt51 alloys having 25 times the activity of pure Pt in ORR.", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance, with Pt-skin surfaces showing a fourfold increase in ORR rate compared to pure Pt. Studying segregation under surface adsorption conditions is crucial for optimizing catalytic properties, as adsorbates can alter surface composition and thus catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Studies on PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys reveal complete surface segregation of Pd and Pt, with original composition restored post-Ru deposition and re-alloying. A slight Pt loss occurs during re-alloying. Stability differences are attributed to lower Pd content (44%) versus Pt (70%). Surface segregation is driven by surface energy differences and nearest-neighbor distances, aligning with Pt and Pd segregation trends. Size mismatch between guest metals (Pt, Pd) and Ru(0001) promotes surface segregation. The floating behavior, observed through four preparation steps, highlights the probability of Pt (Pd) dissolution in the subsurface region, estimated using a Boltzmann approach. Bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, or bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "DFT reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site over the (100) step in Pt-based (211) surfaces, causing segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co. Notably, Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface atomic arrangement significantly impacts catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of understanding segregation effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention, while CO adsorption promotes Pt diffusion to the surface, especially on initially pure Au clusters. Density functional theory confirms Pt's surface diffusion for CO binding. O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial for CO oxidation, explaining its absence on 100% Au surfaces before CO exposure, due to the low probability of Pt site ensembles. These factors significantly influence catalytic properties and performance in Pt-based alloy systems.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"},
{"DOC": "DFT predicts Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with hydrogen, but oxygen induces 3d atom segregation to the surface, forming 3dPtPt structures. Experimental verification confirms these predictions, revealing activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation. PtNiPt shows the highest resistance, while PtTiPt is most susceptible. Stability trends, verified by DFT and experiments, use Δεd to screen alloys. Empirical equations predict stability in various conditions. Oxygen binding energy differences highlight the need to understand stability in reacting environments. Sabatier's principle suggests optimal binding properties for subsurface structures may halt reactions on surface structures and vice versa. DFT predicts subsurface configurations are preferred in vacuum and with hydrogen, while surface configurations are favored with oxygen. AES results show two segregation regions, bridging the materials gap. All Pt3dPt(100) structures have higher activation barriers for oxygen-induced segregation than Pt3dPt(111). Linear trends correlate thermodynamic stability with d-band center differences. Switching admetal/host components shifts segregation driving potential. General stability trends predict preferred configurations in each environment.", "Doi": "10.1007/s11244-010-9447-2"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Simulation results reveal Pd segregates to the outer layers of PtPd nanoparticles, with Pt concentration increasing towards the core, impacting catalytic properties due to Pd's preference for (100) facets over (111) facets.", "Doi": "10.1088/0953-8984_23_47_475301"},
{"DOC": "Under specific conditions, PtFe alloys form a thermodynamically stable Pt skin layer with (111)-oriented facets, as observed via in situ electrochemical STM. This layer, induced by Fe dissolution, shields the alloy from corrosion, enhancing stability and catalytic performance in fuel cells. Potential cycles increase Fe dissolution and Pt rearrangement, leading to the protective Pt layer. Ongoing research examines the layer's electrocatalytic behavior, such as CO adsorption and oxidation, further elucidating its role in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1039/b107037a"},
{"DOC": "Alloying Pt with Fe enhances electrocatalytic activity, peaking at 50% Fe content with a 25-fold increase over pure Pt, due to the 5d-vacancy on the surface. This exemplifies how thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions affect the stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0022-0728(98)00361-1"},
{"DOC": "Pt's sluggish ORR kinetics in PEM fuel cells drives research into Pt alloys for enhanced activity. Surface segregation, forming a pure Pt-skin, is critical, with Au showing strong segregation in PtAu alloys, unlike Co in PtCo alloys. Au's exothermic segregation is thermodynamically favorable, contrasting with Co's tendency to migrate inward, making continuous Co segregation unlikely and both thermodynamically and kinetically prohibitive. This segregation process, involving interlayer migration and vacancy movement, is crucial for understanding the enhanced stability and catalytic properties of Pt-based catalysts. Modern techniques have identified segregation trends and characterized surface and subsurface regions in many Pt alloy systems, revealing the pivotal role of surface segregation in catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/ct8004062"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-3d alloys. 3d metals bolster surface adsorption, stabilizing Pt-skin surfaces under clean and oxygen-covered conditions, thanks to the protective role of subsurface 3d atoms. This enhances electronic and geometric properties, improving adsorbate binding strength and catalytic performance. Surface segregation aids in removing adsorbed species, boosting the oxygen reduction reaction rate, while the stability of Pt-skin surfaces leads to a positive potential shift, delaying Pt atom dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp8046888"},
{"DOC": "Annealing modifies the structure and chemistry of PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces, altering morphology and adsorption properties, which significantly influences catalytic activity and selectivity. Ensemble and electronic interaction effects for D and CO adsorption upon alloy formation underscore the critical role of surface structure in bimetallic catalysts, including active metals like Ru and Pt.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201000391"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structure of bimetallic catalysts, notably in Pt-based systems. Surface segregation, where one metal species enriches the surface, significantly alters catalytic activities. Pt, a key catalyst in reactions like methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, is the primary electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. Enhanced ORR activities have been observed in Pt alloys with 3d metals, with surface segregation playing a critical role. Stamenkovic et al. found that the ORR on Pt-skin structures, produced by Pt segregating on the surface of annealed Pt3Co alloys, is uniquely active, with a reaction rate four times that of pure Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2007.09.052"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based alloys. At room temperature, Ag forms elongated 2D-adislands on Pt(1 0 0) with a composition of Ag80Pt20. Annealing above 600 K promotes AgPt exchange, forming a nanophasic alloy that spreads across the surface, establishing uniform stoichiometry. Elevated temperatures facilitate mixing of Ag with bulk Pt, indicating that reaction conditions can alter the catalyst's structural dynamics and stability, impacting its catalytic properties.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2003.12.023"},
{"DOC": "Ternary Pt alloys exhibit surface segregation, forming a Pt monolayer that weakens O and OH binding, enhancing ORR activity over bimetallic surfaces, and showing improved electrochemical stability against Pt dissolution.", "Doi": "10.1149/1.3409559"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems, exhibit altered stability, surface segregation, and structure under varying thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions. Near-surface alloys (NSAs) uniquely bind atomic hydrogen weakly, similar to noble metals, while efficiently dissociating H2, enhancing hydrogen-related reactions pivotal for chemical and pharmaceutical processes. Stability is assessed in a two-step process: evaluating composition in vacuum and accounting for hydrogen adsorption effects. Adsorbates, particularly hydrogen, can induce surface segregation by comparing solute segregation energy to hydrogen binding energy differences. NSAs offer an exception by allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers, promising high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures, ideal for chiral pharmaceutical production and hydrogen separation/storage. These findings suggest that precise control of metal catalyst surface structure, potentially through improved nanofabrication techniques, could unlock the unique catalytic properties of NSAs.", "Doi": "10.1038/nmat1223"},
{"DOC": "Doping Pt3Ni with V, Fe, Co, Mo, Tc, Ru, W, Re, Os, and Ir promotes Pt surface segregation, while Ag, Au, and Pd doping inhibits it. This segregation is governed by surface segregation energy, lattice mismatch, and heat of solution relative to Pt3Ni, highlighting the influence of thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions on the stability and structure of bimetallic catalysts in Pt-based systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2011.05.032"},
{"DOC": "Under electrochemical conditions, Pt-based alloys, particularly Pt-3d alloys, exhibit reduced stability compared to pure Pt at the same oxygen coverage. However, maintaining zero oxygen coverage at working potentials (e.g., 0.9 V) is crucial for achieving high activity and stability. Alloying stabilizes the Pt d-band, making surface Pt atoms more resistant to segregation or dissolution. Pt2Mo is identified as a stable and active alloy at high electrochemical potentials, with a lower kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction (OR) than Pt. The aqueous environment and in situ oxygen coverage play a critical role in facilitating the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on alloy surfaces. Pt2Mo achieves the best balance of stability and activity, with an optimum Mo content of 30%.", "Doi": "10.1039/c0ee00762e"},
{"DOC": "Under elevated conditions, CO adsorption counterintuitively pulls Cu to the surface of CuPt near-surface alloys, driven by the formation of a stable CO/CuPt surface alloy structure. This is due to the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer. DFT calculations confirm the observed Cu surface segregation and the weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content. These findings suggest new possibilities for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis, potentially applicable to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.", "Doi": "10.1021/ja8089087"},
{"DOC": "Oxygen's influence on 3d metal segregation in Pt-based systems, guided by crystal planes, determines subsurface metal stability. DFT calculations reveal oxygen's effect on Pt(111) and Pt(100), impacting ORR activity, crucial for bimetallic catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1063/1.2900962"},
{"DOC": "Bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems with subsurface 3d transition metals, exhibit superior catalytic properties due to complex surface structures. Pt-skin surfaces outperform pure Pt in reactions. Surface structures dynamically change under varying reaction conditions, offering opportunities to adjust catalytic activity and selectivity, as demonstrated in Pt-based bimetallic catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.200900053"},
{"DOC": "In bimetallic catalysis, surface stability under reaction conditions is critical, affecting catalytic properties. PtNiPt(111) is thermodynamically more stable than NiPtPt(111) in vacuum, and Pt-terminated surfaces are preferred in Pt3d alloys. Segregation energy (Eseg) and hydrogen binding energies dictate surface composition. Oxygen destabilizes subsurface structures, driving 3d metals to the surface. Adsorbates with weak Pauling electronegativity have minimal effect, while strong ones like oxygen can alter binding energy, leading to surface segregation at high coverage.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300096b_5"},
{"DOC": "In Pt-3d alloy catalysts, 3d TMs migrate to subsurface layers under reductive conditions due to higher surface energy and smaller size, while oxidizing conditions induce surface segregation, forming oxidized islands. Pt(111) surfaces with atomic-dispersed 3d TMs exhibit high CO oxidation activity, highlighting the critical interplay between structure, reaction environment, and catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2010.10.069"},
{"DOC": "PtNi, PtCo, and PtCu bimetallic catalysts exhibit reversible surface structure changes with environmental gas redox potential, influenced by surface segregation favoring metals with larger atomic radii. Hydrogen's weak bonding doesn't affect segregation, while oxygen adsorption promotes 3d transition metals to the surface, leading to oxide encapsulation of Pt surfaces in oxidative environments. Reversible mass transport processes in oxidation/reduction reactions significantly impact real catalytic processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2009.03.086"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions impact the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, notably Pt-based systems. Fe-Pt catalysts exhibit high selectivity for CO oxidation in excess H2, as evidenced by a study achieving nearly 100% selectivity [1]. Pt-skin structures are highly active in hydrogenating unsaturated hydrocarbons [2], with subsurface Fe modifying the electronic structure of surface Pt, influencing adsorption and reaction characteristics [3]. Controlled preparation of Fe-Pt surface structures reveals structure-catalytic property relationships, aiding in the design of high-performance, low-cost catalysts [4].", "Doi": "10.1016/s1872-2067(09)60037-1"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation in Pt-3d bimetallic catalysts, like Pt3Co, significantly boosts oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance over pure Pt, achieving four times higher activity with a Pt-skin surface. Reaction conditions and adsorbates critically influence surface composition, which is pivotal for catalytic properties. Studying segregation trends under operating environments is essential for optimizing Pt-based alloy catalysts, as catalytic properties are determined by surface geometry and electronic structure, which can be modified by surface composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.11.036"},
{"DOC": "Surface segregation of Pd and Pt in PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) alloys is influenced by surface energies and size mismatch, favoring inclusion in the outermost Ru layer. Preparation steps, including deposition, alloy formation, and re-alloying, impact floating behavior and subsurface dissolution probability. Surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001), Pt(111), and Pd(111), correlating with observed segregation. Size mismatch between guest and host metals provides additional driving force for surface segregation. Distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) versus layer-by-layer growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) is attributed to Pd content, 2D distribution, and bonding differences.", "Doi": "10.1002/cphc.201001087"},
{"DOC": "Density functional theory reveals oxygen's preference for the bridge site on Pt-based alloy surfaces, impacting segregation in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir, and Pt/Co systems. Notably, Pt/Ir exhibits antisegregation even with oxygen adsorption. Surface structure, influenced by atomic arrangement, is critical for catalytic activity, highlighting the importance of characterizing atomic distribution in Pt alloys.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2008.09.023"},
{"DOC": "Thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions significantly impact bimetallic catalysts, especially Pt-based systems. Au's lower surface free energy and immiscibility with Pt favor its surface retention. CO adsorption promotes Pt's surface diffusion, particularly on initially pure Au clusters. For CO oxidation, O2 dissociation at contiguous Pt sites is crucial, explaining why it doesn't occur on pure Au surfaces before CO exposure, as Au lacks the necessary Pt sites. These factors profoundly affect catalytic properties and performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/jp108939h"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    