<quotes>

[1] "It is suspected that the density functional theory (DFT) with the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) may not describe accurately the behavior of the electrons in the f-orbitals of the Ce atoms in CeO2. In GGA, the electrons in the f-bands are delocalized over the Ce atoms while it is believed (with good reason) that in reality each electron is localized on a Ce atom. It is hoped, but by no means proven, that this flaw can be cured by introducing in the Hamiltonian a repulsive energy U that tends to localize the f-electrons on the Ce atoms. U is chosen to fit the measured value of some property that is deemed important to the particular application of the theory. In our case, we are interested in getting good values for the total energy and we are using U = 5.5 eV since this reproduces the energy of the reaction Ce2O3 + 1/2O2 ? 2CeO2 and gives accurate values for the lattice parameters of both oxides [33,34]. The LDA + U results are closer to experiments than those obtained with PW91 + U, and the LDA calculations are more efficient. For this reason, we use LDA + U in the present calculations."

[2] "The state having the lowest energy, for the doped slab, has zero spin polarization. Replacing a Ce atom in the surface layer with a Pt atom causes a change in the atomic positions in the top layer: the oxygen atoms neighboring the Pt dopant are closer to it than they were to the Ce atom that has been substituted: the PtO distance is 2.12 Å while the CeO distance in the pure ceria is 2.33 Å. The 2.12 Å PtO distance in doped ceria is longer than the PtO distance in PtO2 (the measured PtO distance is 1.99 Å and the calculated one is 2.00 Å). As the oxygen atoms get closer to the Pt dopant, their distance to the Ce atoms increases from 2.33 Å to 2.43 Å. This increase in the CeO distance suggests that the strength of this bond is diminished. Furthermore, an increased PtO bond, when compared to that of PtO2, suggests that the PtO bond in doped ceria is not as strong as the PtO bond in PtO2."

[3] "The weakening of the bond between the oxygen atoms neighboring the Pt atom is reflected in the change in the energy required for making an oxygen vacancy. To remove an O atom from the top layer of the pure oxide, to form a O2 molecule in the gas phase, costs 3.00 eV. The lowest energy state of a pure ceria slab with an oxygen vacancy in it has Ns = 2 (two unpaired spins). The formation energy for pure ceria is consistent with that calculated by Ganduglia-Pirovano et al. [41]. For the Pt-doped ceria, the formation of an oxygen vacancy, in the top layer, near the dopant, costs 2.15 eV. The lowest energy state of the slab with a vacancy in it has Ns = 0."

[4] "The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation has been measured but the results are at variance due to differences in the method of preparation. It is therefore not possible to compare reliably the values calculated here with experiments. Measurements of the equilibrium between gaseous O2 and ceria have been used to determine the enthalpy of oxygen-vacancy formation, and the results have been reviewed by Mongensen et al. [46]. It was found that when x in CeO2x is 105 the enthalpy of vacancy formation (to generate O2) is 2.6 eV. This is substantially smaller than the value of 3.36 eV obtained by DFT calculations. However, this enthalpy depends strongly on vacancy concentration [46]: for example, it is 4.9 eV when x = 103. However, more recent results have created a great deal of confusion. The energy to form vacan- cies depends on the temperature of calcination: calcining at high temperature leads to a form of ceria that binds oxygen very strongly [47]. It appears that nano-structured ceria releases oxygen more readily than bulk ceria [4851]. A possible, simple explana- tion may be that in systems with very high surface area one detects the formation of surface oxygen vacancies; their formation re- quires lower energy than forming bulk vacancies. Some measure- ments have correlated the uptake or release of oxygen with the area [48]. Nano-rods of ceria displaying the (0 0 1) and (1 1 0) faces are more active in oxidizing CO than nano-particles of ceria [52] which suggests a dependence of the energy to form oxygen vacan- cies on the crystal face, which is supported by computations [53]."

[5] "Because of these difficulties in validating the calculated the en- ergy of vacancy formation, we do not place much emphasis on the absolute values of the numbers but assume that the qualitative conclusion that the presence of Pt lowers substantially the energy required for making an oxygen vacancy is correct."

[6] "The reaction path for this process, obtained with the nudged elastic band (NEB) method [59,60], is shown in Fig. 8. The key energies are given on the potential energy diagrams in Fig. 9. The geometries of these key states are shown in Fig. 10 (on pure ceria) and Fig. 11 (on doped ceria)."

[7] "The important qualitative result is that doping lowers the activation energy for the breaking of the CH bond. This is the rate-limiting step in all methane activation processes."

[8] "The presence of these states is likely to contribute to the activation entropy, and it may require a reformulation of the transition state theory."

[9] "The Bader charges on the atoms in the transition state and the final, dissociated state on pure ceria are shown in Fig. 12a and b. The most conspicuous feature is the large change on the charge on the carbon from 0.44 in the transition state to 0.24 in the methoxide formed when CH3 binds to the surface. The charge of the hydrogen atom forming the hydroxyl changes from 0.39 in the transition state to 0.63 in the final (dissociated) state. This is accompanied by a substantial change in the charge of the oxygen atom forming the hydroxyl from 1.17 to 1.34. The electron charge lost by the carbon atom, when going from the transition state to the final state, is donated to the Ce and the O atoms, each of them taking a small amount of electron charge. A similar behav- ior is observed for Pt-doped ceria. It is remarkable that in spite of the large charge transfer occurring on the carbon and the H and O atoms forming the hydroxyl, there is no charge change on the Pt atom."

[10] "In the literature on the oxidative coupling of methane (OCM), to form ethane or ethylene, it is believed the CH3 radicals formed by the dissociation of the methane on the surface desorb and engage in gas-phase chemistry. The temperatures used for OCM are higher than the ones used in the present work. Nevertheless, we have cal- culated the energy needed to remove CH3 into the gas when meth- ane has reached the transition state. This requires 0.24 eV, on the doped oxide, and 0.38 eV on the pure oxide (see Fig. 9). These ener- gies are above those of the transition state and therefore, the calcu- lations suggest that the presence of CH3 in the gas, at the temperatures at which our experiments have been performed, is not likely."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions by the oxide surface acting as an oxidant, providing oxygen atoms for the reaction, and then being reoxidized by an oxygen molecule from the gas phase. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is significant in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface because it reflects the ease with which oxygen atoms can be removed from the surface to participate in the reaction. A lower ΔEv indicates that oxygen atoms can be more easily detached from the surface, making the oxide a more reactive oxidant and potentially increasing the catalytic activity for oxidation reactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. Mars-van Krevelen机制在氧化物催化的氧化反应中通过氧化物表面充当氧化剂，为反应提供氧原子，然后通过气相中的氧分子重新氧化。形成氧空位所需的能量(ΔEv)在确定氧化物表面的催化活性和氧化能力方面具有重要意义，因为它反映了氧原子从表面参与反应的容易程度。较低的ΔEv表明氧原子可以更容易地从表面分离，使氧化物成为更反应性的氧化剂，可能增加氧化反应的催化活性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
