<quotes>

[1] "It is suspected that the density functional theory (DFT) with the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) may not describe accu- rately the behavior of the electrons in the f-orbitals of the Ce atoms in CeO2. In GGA, the electrons in the f-bands are delocalized over the Ce atoms while it is believed (with good reason) that in reality each electron is localized on a Ce atom. It is hoped, but by no means proven, that this flaw can be cured by introducing in the Hamiltonian a repulsive energy U that tends to localize the f-elec- trons on the Ce atoms. U is chosen to fit the measured value of some property that is deemed important to the particular applica- tion of the theory. In our case, we are interested in getting good values for the total energy and we are using U = 5.5 eV since this reproduces the energy of the reaction Ce2O3 + 1/2O2 ? 2CeO2 and gives accurate values for the lattice parameters of both oxides [33,34]. The LDA + U results are closer to experiments than those obtained with PW91 + U, and the LDA calculations are more effi- cient. For this reason, we use LDA + U in the present calculations."

[2] "The energy of oxygen-vacancy formation has been measured but the results are at variance due to differences in the method of preparation. It is therefore not possible to compare reliably the values calculated here with experiments. Measurements of the equilibrium between gaseous O2 and ceria have been used to determine the enthalpy of oxygen-vacancy formation, and the re- sults have been reviewed by Mongensen et al. [46]. It was found that when x in CeO2x is 105 the enthalpy of vacancy formation (to generate O2) is 2.6 eV. This is substantially smaller than the value of 3.36 eV obtained by DFT calculations. However, this enthalpy depends strongly on vacancy concentration [46]: for example, it is 4.9 eV when x = 103. However, more recent results have created a great deal of confusion. The energy to form vacan- cies depends on the temperature of calcination: calcining at high temperature leads to a form of ceria that binds oxygen very strongly [47]. It appears that nano-structured ceria releases oxygen more readily than bulk ceria [4851]. A possible, simple explana- tion may be that in systems with very high surface area one detects the formation of surface oxygen vacancies; their formation re- quires lower energy than forming bulk vacancies. Some measure- ments have correlated the uptake or release of oxygen with the area [48]. Nano-rods of ceria displaying the (0 0 1) and (1 1 0) faces are more active in oxidizing CO than nano-particles of ceria [52] which suggests a dependence of the energy to form oxygen vacan- cies on the crystal face, which is supported by computations [53]."

[3] "The state having the lowest energy, for the doped slab, has zero spin polarization. Replacing a Ce atom in the surface layer with a Pt atom causes a change in the atomic positions in the top layer: the oxygen atoms neighboring the Pt dopant are closer to it than they were to the Ce atom that has been substituted: the PtO dis- tance is 2.12 Å while the CeO distance in the pure ceria is 2.33 Å. The 2.12 Å PtO distance in doped ceria is longer than the PtO distance in PtO2 (the measured PtO distance is 1.99 Å and the calculated one is 2.00 Å). As the oxygen atoms get closer to the Pt dopant, their distance to the Ce atoms increases from 2.33 Å to 2.43 Å. This increase in the CeO distance suggests that the strength of this bond is diminished. Furthermore, an increased PtO bond, when compared to that of PtO2, suggests that the PtO bond in doped ceria is not as strong as the PtO bond in PtO2."

[4] "The weakening of the bond between the oxygen atoms neigh- boring the Pt atom is reflected in the change in the energy required for making an oxygen vacancy. To remove an O atom from the top layer of the pure oxide, to form a O2 molecule in the gas phase,costs 3.00 eV. The lowest energy state of a pure ceria slab with an oxygen vacancy in it has Ns = 2 (two unpaired spins). The forma- tion energy for pure ceria is consistent with that calculated by Ganduglia-Pirovano et al. [41]. For the Pt-doped ceria, the forma- tion of an oxygen vacancy, in the top layer, near the dopant, costs 2.15 eV. The lowest energy state of the slab with a vacancy in it has Ns = 0."

[5] "The removal of an oxygen atom, to form a vacancy, leaves be- hind the two electrons that had formed the oxygenmetal bond. Previous calculations, using DFT + U, have shown that these elec- trons are localized on the f-orbitals of two Ce atoms, converting Ce4+ ions to Ce3+. However, one should keep in mind that these for- mal charges are merely a metaphor: a more appropriate statement would be that the formation of a vacancy reduces the positive charge on the Ce atoms. This behavior is different from that ob- tained with DFTGGA, which does not show the formal reduction of Ce4+ to Ce3+. The experiments suggest that this reduction is pres- ent and this is one of the reasons for the current preference for DFT + U. To test the degree of reduction, we calculated the Bader charges [41,43,44] before and after vacancy formation. The results,for pure ceria, are shown in Fig. 7a and b. The cerium atom in the surface layer of pure ceria has a positive charge of 2.33 (i.e. when forming the oxide the Ce atom donates 2.33 electrons) and the charge on the oxygen atoms (in both the top and the second layer) is 1.18 (when forming the oxide an oxygen atom gains 1.18 elec- trons). When the vacancy is formed, the triangular symmetry of the Ce atoms closest to the surface is broken: the charge on two of the Ce atoms surrounding the vacancy changes from 2.33 to 2.11. The charge on the third Ce atom neighboring the vacancy is unchanged. The formation of the vacancy hardly changes the charge on the oxygen atoms (see Fig. 7b). It is debatable whether the small decrease in the positive charge on two of the Ce atoms,when the vacancy is formed, entitles us to say that Ce4+ is reduced to Ce3+. The experimental evidence for the reduction of Ce upon the formation of an oxygen vacancy is based on the XPS spectra. When the oxide is reduced, a shoulder develops in the XPS spectrum at energies where the XPS spectrum of Ce in Ce2O3 is located. Unfor- tunately, the position of the XPS peaks depends on the electronic structure of the initial and final state, not only on the charge of the atom. Therefore, we do not consider the XPS spectra as provid- ing conclusive evidence for Ce reduction. Theory is not helpful either since the electronic structure is affected by the value of U,and there is no compelling reason to adopt a specific U value."

[6] "The effect of doping on the atomic charges is shown in Fig. 7c. Replacing a Ce atom with a Pt atom reduces the charge on the adja- cent oxygen atoms in the top layer from 1.18 to 1.03. Pt has a much lower positive charge than the Ce atom it replaced (1.35 in- stead of 2.33). The main effect of vacancy creation is the reduction of Pt (its charge changes from 1.36 to 0.83). This is accompanied by a small reduction of the positive charge on cerium and a slight in- crease of the negative charge on oxygen. The presence of a reduc- ible dopant in a reducible oxide introduces a new element controlling the fate of the electrons left behind when O is removed:they can reduce the cations of the host or the dopant and in the present case the dopant is reduced. Either effect contributes to lowering the energy of vacancy formation."

[7] "Because of these difficulties in validating the calculated the en- ergy of vacancy formation, we do not place much emphasis on the absolute values of the numbers but assume that the qualitative conclusion that the presence of Pt lowers substantially the energy required for making an oxygen vacancy is correct."

[8] "As shown in previous work [40,53,57,58], dopants that lower the energy of oxygen-vacancy formation make the oxide a more reactive (than the undoped oxide). This suggests that, in the case of methane activation, the oxygen atoms whose bond to the sur- face is weakened by the presence of Pt will form stronger bonds with the CH3 radical and the hydrogen atom formed by breaking the CH bond. An alternative is that some of the dissociation frag- ments may bind to the Pt dopant. The BronstedEvansPolanyi rule [1322] further suggests that a stronger binding of the prod- ucts will result in a lowering of the activation energy for bond breaking. Theory can test these inferences."

[9] "Our DFT calculations show that methane dissociates to form a CH3 radical and an H atom, and these two fragments bind to two of the oxygen atoms weakened by the presence of the dopant."

[10] "The reaction path for this process, obtained with the nudged elastic band (NEB) method [59,60], is shown in Fig. 8. The key energies are given on the potential energy diagrams in Fig. 9. The geometries of these key states are shown in Fig. 10 (on pure ceria) and Fig. 11 (on doped ceria)."

[11] "Different points on the graph shown in Fig. 8 correspond to dif- ferent geometries along the reaction path. The NEB method opti- mizes these points so that the line joining them passes through the transition state. The shape of the rubber band for the disso- ciative adsorption of methane on Pt-doped ceria is very unusual. The geometry 1 corresponds to physisorbed methane. The binding energy is 0.16 eV, on doped ceria, and 0.21 eV on pure ceria (see Fig. 9). DFT does not include van der Waals interactions and there- fore, the measured binding energy should be larger than these val- ues. The structure of the physisorbed methane on pure ceria is shown in Fig. 10a. A hydrogen atom in methane coordinates to an oxygen atom in the top layer. The position of methane on the Pt-doped ceria is fairly similar. There is no indication that Pt forms a bond with CH4."

[12] "The geometries 57 along the NEB (see Fig. 8) correspond to a rapid rise of the energy caused by the breaking of the CH bond. Point 7 corresponds to the transition state, whose energy is 1.29 eV on pure ceria, and 1.08 eV on Pt-doped ceria (Fig. 9). The important qualitative result is that doping lowers the activation energy for the breaking of the CH bond. This is the rate-limiting step in all methane activation processes. The geometry of the tran- sition state, for pure ceria, is shown in Fig. 10d. An oxygenH bond of 1.22 Å is formed with one of the oxygen atoms in the top layer;the CH bond is stretched but not broken (its length is 1.41 Å). The geometry of the transition state on the Pt-doped surface is shown in Fig. 11d. This is very similar to the one seen for pure ceria, except that the activation energy is lower. The Pt dopant does not form bonds with the methane or any of the fragments (H or CH3) created by dissociation. The role of Pt is to activate the oxygen atoms next to it."

[13] "The points 822 correspond to metastable states in which the CH3 group swings around to move close to an oxygen atom on the surface. This large-scale motion does not involve bond stretch- ing or breaking, and this is why the energy does not change much even though the geometry does. The energy of the metastable states is lower than the TS energy, and it is 1.08 eV on pure ceria and 0.90 eV on doped ceria. One of the metastable geometries is shown in Fig. 10c, for pure ceria, and Fig. 11c, for doped ceria."

[14] "The rapid decrease in energy, as the geometry changes from the points 21 to 25 (Fig. 8), corresponds to the formation of the bond between the C atom in CH3 and an oxygen atom in the surface. The energy of the dissociated state is 1.31 eV for pure ceria and 2.11 eV on doped ceria (see Fig. 9). The geometries of the dissoci- ated states are shown in Fig. 10b (for pure ceria) and Fig. 11b (for doped ceria). Both fragments are binding to oxygen atoms in the surface layers. In the case of the Pt-doped surface, the methyl rad- ical is slightly rotated (when compared to its position on pure cer- ia) so that one H atom gets closer to the Pt atom."

[15] "The Bader charges on the atoms in the transition state and the final, dissociated state on pure ceria are shown in Fig. 12a and b. The most conspicuous feature is the large change on the charge on the carbon from 0.44 in the transition state to 0.24 in the methoxide formed when CH3 binds to the surface. The charge of the hydrogen atom forming the hydroxyl changes from 0.39 in the transition state to 0.63 in the final (dissociated) state. This is accompanied by a substantial change in the charge of the oxygen atom forming the hydroxyl from 1.17 to 1.34. The electron charge lost by the carbon atom, when going from the transition state to the final state, is donated to the Ce and the O atoms, each of them taking a small amount of electron charge. A similar behav- ior is observed for Pt-doped ceria. It is remarkable that in spite of the large charge transfer occurring on the carbon and the H and O atoms forming the hydroxyl, there is no charge change on the Pt atom."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operates in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions by involving the redox properties of the oxide surface. The energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) is a critical parameter that determines both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface. A lower ΔEv indicates a more reactive oxide surface, as it can more easily release oxygen atoms to participate in oxidation reactions. In the case of doped ceria, the presence of Pt dopants weakens the bond between the oxygen atoms and the surface, making it easier to form oxygen vacancies. This results in a lower ΔEv and a more reactive oxide surface, enhancing the catalytic activity for methane activation and oxidation reactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.火星-范克雷维尔机制在氧化物催化氧化反应中通过涉及氧化物表面的氧化还原性质来运作。形成氧空位所需的能量(ΔEv)是一个关键参数，决定了氧化物表面的催化活性和氧化能力。较低的ΔEv表明氧化物表面更具反应性，因为它可以更容易地释放氧原子参与氧化反应。在掺杂铈的情况下，Pt掺杂剂削弱了氧原子与表面之间的键，使形成氧空位变得更容易。这导致ΔEv降低，氧化物表面更具反应性，增强了甲烷活化和氧化反应的催化活性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
