<quotes>

[1] "Using N2O as an oxidant may be an effective way to utilize N2O, which is an acidic, strong greenhouse gas."
[2] "While iron-based materials, such as Fe-ZSM-5, are found to be the catalysts that give the highest C3H6 yield for ODHP using N2O, other catalysts, including redox metal catalysts, such as vanadium and molybdenum, have been studied as well."
[3] "Despite the improved propylene selectivity, most of N2OODHP catalysts reported to date deactivate quickly, mainly because of coke formation, making N2O a currently less feasible oxidant than other soft oxidants, such as CO2."
[4] "For vanadium catalysts, using N2O instead of O2 in ODHP results in increased selectivity of C3H6."
[5] "Such improved C3H6 selectivity using N2O is attributed to the lesser ability of N2O to oxidize reduced VOx species."
[6] "Regarding the vanadium oxide species that are formed in ODHP using O2 and N2O, Sauer et al. propose that the formation of peroxovanadate species can be responsible for the decreased selectivity to C3H6 when using O2."
[7] "It is also noted that the C3H6 selectivity increases as the loading of VOx increases, up to a certain loading on the alumina, while it barely shows any change in selectivity for the silica-supported counterpart."
[8] "On the basis of these observations, it was hypothesized that there is an optimum oxidation state for Mon+ species that allows for maximum selectivity; if the extent of reduction is too high, COx products are favored, leading to decreased C3H6 selectivity."
[9] "Combining the observations made from XPS and DRIFTS, Ruiz et al. assert that while both oxygen and N2O are able to interact with the surface hydroxyl groups on the catalyst surface, N2O stabilizes molybdenum in a more reduced state on nickel molybdate compared to molecular oxygen."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. Nitrous oxide (N2O) can be effectively utilized as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) to enhance propylene selectivity compared to other oxidants like oxygen. Catalysts such as iron-containing zeolites and vanadium-based catalysts have been studied for their performance in this process. Despite the improved selectivity, the quick deactivation of N2O-based catalysts due to coke formation limits its practical application, making it less favorable than other soft oxidants like carbon dioxide.

2. In the process of ODHP, vanadium oxide catalysts exhibit increased selectivity towards propylene when using N2O instead of oxygen as an oxidant. This enhanced selectivity is attributed to the lesser oxidizing capability of N2O towards reduced vanadium oxide species. Peroxovanadate species, which are more prone to form under oxygen conditions and lead to decreased selectivity, are less likely to form under N2O, thus maintaining a higher selectivity for propylene.

3. Catalysts with optimized loading of vanadium oxide show increased selectivity towards propylene. However, beyond a certain loading, the selectivity starts to decrease. This suggests there is an optimal level of reduction for vanadium species that maximizes selectivity. Excessive reduction leads to the formation of COx products, which decreases propylene selectivity.

4. N2O stabilizes molybdenum in a more reduced state on nickel molybdate catalysts compared to molecular oxygen. This reduction of molybdenum facilitates better interaction with surface hydroxyl groups and limits the oxidation rate, thereby reducing the formation of overoxidation products and enhancing propylene selectivity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 在氧化脱氢丙烷（ODHP）过程中，使用N2O作为氧化剂可以有效提高丙烯选择性，与氧气等其他氧化剂相比。铁基材料和以钒为基础的催化剂等催化剂已经在这一过程中进行了研究。尽管提高了选择性，但目前报道的N2OODHP催化剂由于焦炭形成而快速失活，这使得N2O比其他软氧化剂如二氧化碳更难实现应用。

2. 在丙烷脱氢过程中，使用N2O代替氧气作为氧化剂时，钒氧化物催化剂显示出增加的丙烯选择性。这种增强的选择性归因于N2O较弱的氧化能力，无法氧化还原的VOx物种。在氧气条件下容易形成的过氧钒酸盐物种，在N2O条件下较少形成，从而维持较高的丙烯选择性。

3. 具有优化负载的钒氧化物催化剂显示出对丙烯增加的选择性。然而，在超过一定负载后，选择性开始下降。这表明存在一种使钒物种最大化选择性的最佳还原状态。过度还原导致COx产品的形成，从而降低了丙烯选择性。

4. N2O在镍钼酸盐催化剂上以更还原的状态稳定钼，与分子氧相比。这种钼的还原促进了表面羟基团的更好相互作用，并限制了氧化速率，从而减少了过氧化产物的形成并增强了丙烯选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
