<quotes>
Approximately 150 people will be employed by MSD when the facility is fully operational.

ABB will provide the engineering, procurement, and construction work as well as the power plant control, the distribution systems, and the balance of plant equipment.

Work on the new power plant is planned to begin later this year, with commercial operation set for the summer of 2000.

Duke/Fluor Daniel, formed in 1989 by Duke Energy Corp and Fluor Daniel, provides engineering, procurement, construction, operations, and maintenance services for fossil-fueled electric power generation facilities worldwide.

GE Capital has completed the financing of the US$65 million, 50+MW GTi Dakar power plant in Senegal.

Elwood Energy LLC, a joint venture between Peoples Energy Resources Corp and Dominion Energy Inc, has signed a contract with General Electric to provide engineering, procurement, and construction services for two additional combustion turbines, as part of a facility expansion.

Shell International Gas Ltd and Enron International have finalized a partnership agreement to develop the Cuiaba Power Project.

Hercules is undertaking engineering studies to expand its pectin facility at its food gums plant in Grossenbrode, Germany.

This investment will increase pectin annual capacity in Grossenbrode from 3300 metric tons to 5500 metric tons.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Approximately 150 people will be employed by MSD when the facility is fully operational.
2. ABB will provide the engineering, procurement, and construction work for the power plant in Midlothian, Texas, including the supply of turbines, generators, and other equipment.
3. Work on the new power plant in Midlothian, Texas, is planned to begin later this year, with commercial operation set for the summer of 2000.
4. Duke/Fluor Daniel offers engineering, procurement, construction, operations, and maintenance services for fossil-fueled electric power generation facilities globally.
5. GE Capital has completed financing for a US$65 million, 50+MW GTi Dakar power plant in Senegal.
6. Elwood Energy, a joint venture between Peoples Energy Resources Corp and Dominion Energy Inc, contracted General Electric for engineering, procurement, and construction services for additional combustion turbines.
7. Shell International Gas Ltd and Enron International have partnered to develop the Cuiaba Power Project, consisting of a gas-fired combined cycle power plant and a 630 km gas pipeline.
8. Hercules is planning to expand its pectin production facility in Grossenbrode, Germany, increasing pectin annual capacity from 3300 metric tons to 5500 metric tons.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 当 MSD 的设施完全投入运营时，大约会有 150 人被雇用。
2. ABB 将为美国德克萨斯州米德洛斯汀的电力工厂提供工程、采购和建设工作，包括供应燃气涡轮机、发电机和其他设备。
3. 米德洛斯汀，德克萨斯州的新电力工厂计划于今年晚些时候开始施工，商业运营定于 2000 年夏季。
4. Duke/Fluor Daniel 提供全球化石燃料发电厂的工程、采购、建设和运营维护服务。
5. GE Capital 已完成对塞内加尔达喀尔 50+兆瓦 GTi 大工厂的 6500 万美元融资。
6. Elwood Energy，由 Peoples Energy Resources Corp 和 Dominion Energy Inc 合资建立，与通用电气签订了合同，为其扩建设施提供工程、采购和建设服务。
7. Shell International Gas Ltd 和 Enron International 已经达成协议，共同开发库里亚巴电力项目，该项目包括一个巴西西部马托格罗索州的燃气联合循环电厂和一条 630 公里的天然气管道。
8. Hercules 正在规划其位于德国高森布罗德食品胶体工厂的明胶生产设施的扩建，将明胶年产能从 3300 公吨增加到 5500 公吨。
