<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "First, the two-site mechanism is proposed to involve tantalum hydrides as key intermediates (Scheme 27c). After a first CH bond activation to form H2 and Ta-alkyl surface species, one site generates an alkene via a β-H transfer, thus regenerating tantalum hydrides; the other site evolves toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via an α-H transfer. (304) The alkene, generated by the first site, then undergoes a homologation process on the second site, which leads to a different alkene and alkylidene species. Subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps provide a way to liberate the lower and higher alkane homologues."
          [2] "Second, the one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, which are formed in situ from either silica supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene tantalum surface complexes (Scheme 28). (251, 252) In this case, the formation and the conversion of the alkene intermediates take place within the coordination sphere of the metal center, as shown previously for the formation of cross-metathesis products, resulting from the reaction of an alkane and a neopentyl neopentylidene surface complex (Scheme 19, R1 = R2 = CH2R)."
          [3] "The selectivity in higher homologues, i.e. the presence of mainly n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, is fully consistent with the fact that alkene metathesis is the key homologation process and that 1-alkenes are mainly participating in the homologation process, (252, 298, 299) in contrast to the catalytic alkane metathesis processes based on mixtures of alkene metathesis and dehydrogenation/hydrogenation catalysts, where a broad distribution of lower and higher homologues are generated, as a result of the cross-metathesis of a broad range of alkene intermediates and, in particular, internal ones. (298, 305-309)"
          [4] "It has been proposed that the key step probably involved, after the formation of the cycloalkyl derivatives via CH bond activation, a γ-H activation (Scheme 26). This yields a metallacyclobutane intermediate, which can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps, e.g. hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement, to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues."
          [5] "Today, several catalysts have been developed on the basis of well-defined metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes (Table 4 and Scheme 27d): Tantalum hydrides prepared on various oxide supports: silicaalumina, alumina, and tailored made supports (entries 14), (262, 310) but they display similar activities and selectivities with the original silica supported tantalum hydrides."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The two-site mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves tantalum hydrides as key intermediates. After the initial CH bond activation to form H2 and Ta-alkyl surface species, one site generates an alkene via β-H transfer, regenerating tantalum hydrides. The other site evolves toward a Ta-alkylidene hydride via α-H transfer. The alkene then undergoes a homologation process on the second site, leading to a different alkene and alkylidene species. Subsequent hydrogenation and hydrogenolysis steps liberate the lower and higher alkane homologues. The one-site mechanism is based on tantalum alkyl alkylidene intermediates, which are formed in situ from either silica-supported tantalum hydrides or neopentyl neopentylidene tantalum surface complexes. The formation and conversion of alkene intermediates take place within the coordination sphere of the metal center. The selectivity in higher homologues, mainly n  1 and n + 1 linear homologues, is consistent with alkene metathesis being the key homologation process. Various cyclic alkanes, except cyclopentane, undergo hydrogenolysis with the catalyst, yielding lower cyclic homologues. The key step involves γ-H activation after the formation of cycloalkyl derivatives via CH bond activation, leading to a metallacyclobutane intermediate. This intermediate can undergo cycloreversion and subsequent steps, such as hydrogenolysis, hydrogenation, and rearrangement, to yield both lower cyclic and acyclic alkane homologues. Several catalysts have been developed based on well-defined metal hydrides, alkyl alkylidene, or alkylidyne surface complexes, including tantalum hydrides prepared on various oxide supports, which display similar activities and selectivities to the original silica-supported tantalum hydrides.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          硅胶支持的钽氢化物催化烷基化反应的双位点机制涉及钽氢化物作为关键中间体。在初始CH键活化形成H2和Ta-烷基表面物种后，一个位点通过β-H转移生成烯烃，从而再生钽氢化物。另一个位点通过α-H转移演变为Ta-烷基化氢化物。然后，烯烃在第二个位点上进行同系化过程，导致不同的烯烃和烷基化物种。随后的氢化和氢解步骤释放较低和较高的烷烃同系物。单位点机制基于钽烷基烷基化中间体，它们原位形成于硅胶支持的钽氢化物或新戊基新戊基化钽表面复合物。烯烃中间体的形成和转化在金属中心的配位范围内进行。在较高同系物中，主要是n  1和n + 1线性同系物的选择性与烯烃同系化是关键同系化过程这一事实一致。各种环烷烃，除了环戊烷，与催化剂发生氢解，产生较低的环同系物。关键步骤涉及在通过CH键活化形成环烷基衍生物后，γ-H活化，导致形成金属环丁烷中间体。该中间体可以经历环反转和后续步骤，如氢解、氢化和重排，以产生较低的环和非环烷烃同系物。已经开发出几种基于定义明确的金属氢化物、烷基烷基化或烷基化表面复合物的催化剂，包括在各种氧化物支持物上制备的钽氢化物，它们与原始硅胶支持的钽氢化物具有相似的活性和选择性。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
