Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins: composition, effectiveness, and industrial applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxides like CrOx, are pivotal. Pt excels in commercial use due to its unique ability to activate paraffinic CH bonds without cleaving CC bonds. The Pacol process, using Pt on alumina, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, an advancement, produces butadiene and propylene. Metal oxides, especially CrOx, have industrial applications, with promising results from gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloys formed inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired products like methane, while Ga addition suppresses coke formation, enhancing stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. A Pt-based catalyst supported on Mg(Ga)(Al)O mixed oxide shows strong dependence on Ga content, with peak activity at Ga/Pt = 1.45.4 and nearly 100% selectivity at Ga/Pt = 5.4. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation and enhances hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but beyond the peak, it contributes to alkene hydrogenation, reducing the net dehydrogenation rate. Hydrogen addition has little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. The presence of Ga suppresses coke formation, with less coke formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced catalyst deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium has a minimal impact on acidity but modifies the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that metal oxide-based catalysts combined with noble metals offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. The alloying of Pt with In reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's effectiveness is attributed to the formation of 1 nm PtIn bimetallic particles, with the size unaffected by use, indicating deactivation due to carbon accumulation. The catalyst shows significant reduction in carbon deposition, especially at the optimal In/Pt ratio, and maintains high activity over time, with minimal loss in ethane dehydrogenation and slightly more in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, Pt catalysts' application in ethane dehydrogenation is limited due to severe operating conditions causing excessive coking or requiring costly vacuum operations. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are employed, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which undergoes beta-elimination to ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene is around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling studies. These catalysts produce ethylene as the primary C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, with some showing high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane but also deactivating over time. Noble metal-based catalysts, especially Pt, have been used since the mid-1960s in the dehydrogenation of light olefins, initially for long-chain linear olefins for biodegradable detergents. CCR technology in the 1970s allowed for stable activity over years without regeneration shutdowns. Alumina supports, with acidic sites that can accelerate side reactions and enhance coke formation, are used with Pt catalysts. To control acidity, alkali or alkaline earth metals are added, and -alumina supports with no acidity are also utilized. Modified catalysts have high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins, with suppressed coke formation and improved stability. Alumina is chosen for its thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain high platinum dispersion, crucial for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. The catalytic reaction rate is limited by intraparticle mass transfer, necessitating an appropriate pore structure for optimal performance. Pt catalysts are used for long-chain paraffin dehydrogenation under mild conditions, allowing long catalyst life and high productivity without regeneration facilities. Light paraffin dehydrogenation requires higher temperatures for economic conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and frequent regeneration needs. Metal oxide-based catalysts have been used in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, showing high activity and selectivity for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins. Recent developments include vanadia-silica-zirconia catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation with high propylene selectivity at temperatures below 700°C. Pt catalysts are widely used industrially for light olefin production, while metal oxide-based catalysts are used for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts have lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions. Recent advancements in metal oxide-based catalysts aim to enhance selectivity and stability for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins reveals that Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts are effective due to the presence of Ga, which forms PtGa alloys, enhancing stability against sintering and coke formation. These catalysts are industrially applied in the production of light alkenes like ethylene, propylene, and n-butene, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments include a series of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, showcasing high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, the literature lacks a detailed comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses the efficiency of Pt/MgAl2O4 in the dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane, under high-temperature, long-cycle conditions. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing the catalyst's performance. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, leaving their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins unexplored.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt is the primary noble metal catalyst due to its superior CH bond activation and low CC cleavage activity, making it the only noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, using alumina-supported Pt, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, initially for butadiene and later for propylene, highlights Pt's industrial significance. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promising results in testing.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloys within the catalyst dilute Pt ensembles, inhibit product alkene adsorption, and suppress undesired methane formation. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios achieve peak activity and selectivity, crucial for industrial light olefin production. Hydrogen addition initially boosts alkene formation but can lead to alkene hydrogenation at higher concentrations, with little effect on selectivity. Interestingly, propane dehydrogenation results in less coke formation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no clear correlation between coke and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that metal oxide-based catalysts, when combined with noble metals, offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high effectiveness and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum activity at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, corresponding to a PtIn alloy with 12% In. The alloying of Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity to nearly 100% for alkene production. This catalyst, with its 1 nm bimetallic particles, shows promise for industrial applications in light olefin production, as it maintains activity and reduces carbon accumulation, especially at the optimal In/Pt ratio.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. Pt-based catalysts, developed in the 1960s, selectively dehydrogenate long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins production. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, allows noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, enabling the UOP OleflexTM process for light olefins production, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxides containing vanadium are employed, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which undergoes beta-elimination to ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene is around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxides are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling studies. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the support's influence on metal particle stability and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, focusing instead on recent developments of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature discusses platinum on magnesium aluminate's efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, direct comparisons with metal oxide-based catalysts, including their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages, are not provided. The focus is on sulfur's role in the deactivation of platinum-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxides, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are utilized. Pt, due to its superior CH bond activation and low CC cleavage activity, is the sole noble metal in commercial use. Historically, the Pacol process, employing a Pt catalyst, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968, followed by UOP's Oleflex process for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxides, particularly CrOx, have shown industrial success, with promising results from other oxides tested.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloys within the catalyst dilute Pt ensembles, inhibiting product alkene adsorption and suppressing methane formation. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition to the feed boosts alkene formation via enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but excessive H2 can lead to alkene hydrogenation, reducing dehydrogenation rates. Alkene selectivity remains high, unaffected by H2 addition. The presence of Ga suppresses coke formation, with less coke produced during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation. These findings highlight the potential advantages of this catalyst in industrial applications for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium has a minimal effect on the acidity function but modifies the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that metal oxide-based catalysts, when combined with noble metals, can offer advantages in terms of activity and stability in dehydrogenation processes, potentially benefiting industrial applications for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. The formation of a PtIn bimetallic alloy with an average diameter of 1 nm significantly reduces coke deposition during reactions, enhancing stability. This catalyst's high performance and stability make it a promising candidate for industrial applications in light olefin production. The decrease in carbon accumulation is most significant as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48, with more gradual reductions at higher ratios. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with small domains of graphitic carbon forming during dehydrogenation, dependent on the alkane composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for paraffin dehydrogenation to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. The introduction of continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology in the 1970s for noble metal catalysts enabled stable activity for several years without shutdowns, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity exceeding 3 million MTA. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, which cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, with catalysts like Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 showing high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, some catalysts show deactivation over time, and the maintenance of activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins reveals the effectiveness of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts. The presence of Ga in these catalysts forms PtGa alloys, enhancing their activity. The support composition, Mg(Ga)(Al)O, is crucial for stability against sintering and coke formation. These catalysts are industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, such as ethylene, propylene, and n-butene. Recent developments highlight their high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. However, the literature lacks a detailed comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in this field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of platinum supported on magnesium aluminate for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, particularly propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt-based catalysts are favored for commercial use due to their superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity. Historically, the Pacol process, using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology. UOP's Oleflex process, employing Pt catalysts, was later developed for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxide-based catalysts, particularly CrOx, have been industrially used with promising results, and other oxides like gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum have shown success in testing.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloys within the catalyst inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired methane formation and reducing deactivation. Ga addition suppresses coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios achieve peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition boosts alkene formation rates but can lead to alkene hydrogenation beyond a certain concentration, reducing dehydrogenation efficiency. Alkene selectivity remains high, unaffected by hydrogen addition. These findings highlight the potential of noble metal-based catalysts for efficient light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts outperform pure Pt/Al2O3, enhancing propylene selectivity and reducing catalyst deactivation and carbon formation. Gallium subtly affects the acidity but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can boost activity and stability in dehydrogenation processes, offering industrial advantages for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. The formation of 1 nm PtIn bimetallic particles enhances stability and reduces coke deposition, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. Alloying Pt with In significantly decreases carbon accumulation, crucial for maintaining activity over time. The catalyst's selectivity to alkene is nearly 100%, and its stability is attributed to the unchanged size of PtIn nanoparticles, despite carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for paraffin-to-olefin conversion. Pt-based catalysts were developed in the 1960s for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for light olefin production, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene at temperatures of 300-500°C, with selectivity to ethylene around 70% at 70% conversion. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts evolved from methane oxidative coupling investigations produce ethylene as the primary C2 product. Recent developments in metal oxide catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts have the potential advantage of high activity and selectivity for light paraffin dehydrogenation, while metal oxide-based catalysts offer lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins highlights the effectiveness of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts. The presence of Ga in these catalysts forms PtGa alloys, enhancing activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. The support composition, Mg(Ga)(Al)O, prevents sintering and coke formation, ensuring stability. Industrial applications include the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments show high-performance Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for ethane and propane conversion. However, the literature lacks a detailed comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in this field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum on magnesium aluminate shows high efficiency for dehydrogenating lower paraffins like propane, isobutane, and isopentane, with trace sulfur suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, and information on compositions, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages of both types of catalysts is not provided.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxides like CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are utilized. Pt stands out for its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and minimal CC cleavage activity, making it the sole noble metal in commercial use. Historically, the Pacol process marked the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology, while the Oleflex process, developed by UOP, was pivotal for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxides, particularly CrOx, have seen industrial application, with additional promising results from gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The presence of Ga in the catalyst suppresses coke formation and enhances stability, with optimized Ga/Pt ratios achieving peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation rates due to enhanced dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, but beyond the optimal point, it leads to alkene hydrogenation, reducing the net dehydrogenation rate. Interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, and no correlation exists between coke formation and catalyst deactivation. The extent of deactivation is lower for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, despite higher coke deposition in the former case.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and lower carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium's impact on the metallic phase structure, particularly after high-temperature reduction, leads to blocking and dilution effects on platinum sites, improving selectivity and stability. This suggests metal oxide-based catalysts combined with noble metals offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst, featuring Pt nanoparticles dispersed on a hydrotalcite-like support with In and Al, shows high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. The catalyst's performance is significantly influenced by the bulk In/Pt ratio, with maximum activity at a ratio of 0.48, corresponding to a PtIn alloy with 12% In. This composition yields nearly 100% selectivity to alkene and significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The alloying of Pt with In decreases carbon accumulation, especially at the optimal In/Pt ratio, and the catalyst's deactivation is attributed to carbon buildup. The text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, but the Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst's performance highlights the potential advantages of noble metal-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. Pt-based catalysts were developed in the 1960s for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, leading to the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, with selectivity to ethylene around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts evolved from methane oxidative coupling are used, producing primarily ethylene. Recent developments include catalysts like Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, and others, showing high selectivity to ethylene at high ethane conversion. Noble metal-based catalysts have been used since the mid-1960s for dehydrogenating light olefins, initially for long-chain linear olefins for detergents. CCR technology in the 1970s allowed for stable activity without shutdowns for regeneration. Alumina supports are used to control acidity and maintain high platinum dispersion for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. Pt catalysts are used for dehydrogenating long-chain paraffins under mild conditions, allowing long catalyst life without regeneration facilities. However, dehydrogenating light paraffins requires higher temperatures, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and frequent regeneration. Metal oxide-based catalysts have been used for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins, with recent developments focusing on improving selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts have high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts offer potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the influence of the Mg(Ga)(Al)O support. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, essential for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments focus on evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for dehydrogenation of ethane and propane. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of platinum supported on magnesium aluminate for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the text lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, in terms of their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt is the primary noble metal catalyst due to its unique bond activation properties, making it the only commercial option. Metal oxide catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promise. The Pacol process, using Pt on alumina, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, employing similar catalysts, was later developed for butadiene and propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloys within the catalyst inhibit product alkene adsorption and undesired methane formation, while Ga suppresses coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios achieve peak activity and selectivity, with selectivity reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4. Hydrogen addition to the feed boosts alkene formation but can lead to alkene hydrogenation beyond a certain concentration. Interestingly, less coke forms during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and catalyst deactivation. These findings highlight the potential of noble metal-based catalysts for efficient light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced catalyst deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium's impact on the acidity function is minimal but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in terms of activity and stability, making them potentially more effective for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, corresponding to a 12% In PtIn alloy. The alloying of Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, a critical factor in catalyst deactivation. The catalyst's high stability and selectivity make it a promising candidate for industrial applications in light olefin production. Upon reduction, bimetallic PtIn particles form, averaging 1 nm in diameter, independent of the In/Pt ratio. The selectivity to alkene is nearly 100% at the optimal ratio, with a significant decrease in carbon accumulation, particularly as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. In the 1970s, UOP introduced continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, enabling noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns. This technology, known as the UOP OleflexTM process, allows for the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity of over 3 million MTA. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, which cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. The surface ethoxide can be further oxidized to make surface acetate, leading to acetic acid on hydrolysis. Catalysts can be made selective for either ethylene or acetic acid by modifications in the elemental makeup and suitable adjustments of reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Catalysts such as Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 have been reported to give high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, some catalysts show deactivation over time, and the maintenance of activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the formation of PtGa alloys and the support's composition, which prevents sintering and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum supported on magnesium aluminate has shown efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, platinum on alumina is more susceptible to metal sintering in oxidizing conditions. The text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx and oxides of gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum, are employed. Pt excels in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity. The Pacol process, using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, initially for butadiene and later for propylene production, further highlights Pt's industrial significance. Metal oxide-based catalysts, particularly CrOx, have industrial use and show promise, with other oxides also demonstrating successful results.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloy formation inhibits product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired products like methane. Ga addition suppresses coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios achieve peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition boosts alkene formation but can lead to alkene hydrogenation, reducing dehydrogenation rates. Alkene selectivity remains near 100% with hydrogen addition. Less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and deactivation. The extent of deactivation is lower for ethane than propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts exhibit enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium has a minimal impact on the acidity function but modifies the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in terms of activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, making them potentially more effective and stable for industrial applications in light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high effectiveness in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, particularly ethane and propane. Prepared by dispersing Pt nanoparticles onto a hydrotalcite-like support containing In and Al, the catalyst forms bimetallic PtIn particles upon reduction, with an average diameter of 1 nm. Activity and selectivity are maximized at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity. This makes the catalyst a promising candidate for industrial applications in light olefin production. The accumulation of carbon decreases as the In/Pt ratio increases, with the most significant reduction from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with small domains of graphitic carbon formed during dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins production. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, Pt catalysts' application in ethane dehydrogenation is limited due to severe operating conditions causing excessive coking or requiring costly vacuum operations. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxides containing vanadium are employed, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which undergoes beta-elimination to ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxides are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling investigations. These catalysts produce ethylene as the primary C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst for alkane dehydrogenation shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane conversion to light alkenes, essential for commodity chemicals and polymers. Its effectiveness is attributed to the PtGa alloy formation, influenced by the support's composition, which prevents sintering and coke formation. Recent studies have evaluated this catalyst series for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, highlighting its potential advantages. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, in terms of effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum supported on magnesium aluminate (Pt/MgAl2O4) has shown efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, with trace sulfur suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, focusing instead on the role of sulfur in the deactivation of Pt/MgAl2O4 for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    