Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins: composition, effectiveness, and industrial applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt-based catalysts excel due to their unique bond activation properties, leading to commercial use, notably in the Pacol process (1968) and UOP's Oleflex for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxide catalysts, particularly CrOx, have industrial applications and show promise, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides also demonstrating success.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Its enhanced performance is attributed to PtGa alloys, which inhibit product alkene adsorption and suppress undesired products like methane. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and higher stability. Optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio achieves peak activity and selectivity. This catalyst's high activity, selectivity, and stability are advantageous for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and decreased carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium's effect is minimal on the acidity function but modifies the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that metal oxide-based catalysts, when combined with noble metals, offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, making them potentially more effective for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high effectiveness for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, achieving maximum activity at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, with nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. The alloying of Pt with In reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's performance, including activity and selectivity, is strongly dependent on the In/Pt ratio, with optimal results at 12% In content. The accumulation of carbon, which leads to deactivation, is significantly reduced by the alloying process, especially at the optimal In/Pt ratio. The catalyst's high stability and selectivity, along with reduced coke deposition, highlight its potential advantages over metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. Pt-based catalysts, developed in the 1960s, selectively dehydrogenate long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking. This led to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns. The UOP OleflexTM process, utilizing this technology, produces light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity exceeding 3 million MTA. However, ethylene production via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, causing excessive coking or requiring costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts evolved from methane oxidative coupling investigations are used, producing ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, with catalysts like Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, and others showing high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Pt, have been used in the dehydrogenation of light olefins since the mid-1960s, initially for long-chain linear olefin production. Pt catalysts have high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. CCR technology, introduced in the 1970s, allows noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without regeneration shutdowns. These catalysts are supported on alumina, which can accelerate side reactions and enhance coke formation due to its acidic sites. To control acidity, alkali or alkaline earth metals are used, and -alumina supports with no acidity can also be utilized. Modified catalysts have high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins, with suppressed coke formation and improved stability. Alumina is chosen as a support due to its thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain high platinum dispersion, crucial for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. The catalytic reaction rate is limited by intraparticle mass transfer, necessitating an appropriate pore structure for optimal catalytic performance. Pt catalysts are used in the dehydrogenation of long-chain paraffins under mild temperature conditions, allowing for long catalyst life and high productivity without the need for regeneration facilities. However, the dehydrogenation of light paraffins requires higher temperatures for economically attractive conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and the need for frequent regeneration. Metal oxide-based catalysts have been used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, showing high activity and selectivity for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins. Recent developments include improved selectivity and stability for dehydrogenation. Pt catalysts have been widely used industrially for light olefin production, while metal oxide-based catalysts have been used for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts have potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, crucial for producing light alkenes used in commodity chemicals and polymers. The literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, focusing instead on recent developments in noble metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature discusses platinum on magnesium aluminate's efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, direct comparisons with metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins are not provided, focusing instead on sulfur's role in deactivation of Pt/MgAl2O4 for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are utilized. Pt, due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, is the sole noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, first commercialized in 1968, employed an alumina-supported Pt catalyst. UOP's Oleflex process, initially for butadiene and later for propylene production, further showcased Pt's industrial relevance. Metal oxides, with CrOx being industrially significant, have shown promise, as have gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides in recent tests.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloys within the catalyst inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired products like methane and reducing coke formation, leading to higher stability. Recent developments involve optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. The addition of Ga suppresses coke formation and enhances selectivity, which remains near 100% even with hydrogen addition to the feed. The extent of deactivation is lower for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, despite higher coke deposition in the former case.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, decreased deactivation, and reduced carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium slightly affects the acidity but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in terms of activity and stability for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, corresponding to a 12% In PtIn alloy. The catalyst's effectiveness is attributed to the formation of 1 nm PtIn bimetallic particles, which significantly reduce coke deposition during reactions. Selectivity to alkene is nearly 100%, and the catalyst shows high stability, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The reduction of carbon accumulation is most significant as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48, with slower decreases at higher ratios. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with small graphitic carbon domains forming during dehydrogenation, dependent on the alkane composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. In the 1970s, UOP introduced continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, enabling noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns. This technology, known as the UOP OleflexTM process, allows for the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity of over 3 million MTA. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, which cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene at temperatures of 300-500°C, with selectivity to ethylene around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, with potential advantages in lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the influence of the Mg(Ga)(Al)O support. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. While the literature highlights recent developments in noble metal-based catalysts, it lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum on magnesium aluminate demonstrates high efficiency for dehydrogenating lower paraffins like propane, isobutane, and isopentane, especially in high-temperature, long-cycle processes. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, leaving their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages unexplored.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt is the sole noble metal catalyst used commercially, thanks to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity (quote [4]). Historically, the Pacol process, utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology commercialized in 1968 (quote [5]). Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have been industrially applied with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promising results (quotes [2] and [3]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The catalyst's performance is enhanced by PtGa alloys, which inhibit product alkene adsorption and suppress methane formation. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, improving stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. This catalyst offers advantages in industrial applications for light olefin production due to its high activity, selectivity, and stability. The catalyst's performance is strongly dependent on Ga content, with peak activity for both ethane and propane dehydrogenation at Ga/Pt = 1.45.4, and selectivity reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. At this ratio, the selectivity to alkene is nearly 100%, and the alloying of Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability. The catalyst's effectiveness is strongly dependent on the In/Pt ratio, with maximum activity achieved at 12% In content. The decrease in carbon accumulation is most significant as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with graphitic carbon domains forming during dehydrogenation. This catalyst is a promising candidate for industrial applications in light olefin production due to its high stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, with selectivity to ethylene around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling investigations. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Catalysts like Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, and others have shown high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, maintaining activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process. Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Pt, have been used in the dehydrogenation of light olefins since the mid-1960s, initially for long-chain linear olefins production. CCR technology allows noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years. Modified catalysts have high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins, with suppressed coke formation and improved stability. Alumina is used as a support due to its thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain high platinum dispersion. Pt catalysts are used in the dehydrogenation of long-chain paraffins under mild conditions, allowing for long catalyst life and high productivity. However, the dehydrogenation of light paraffins requires higher temperatures for economically attractive conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and the need for frequent regeneration. Metal oxide-based catalysts have been used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, with recent developments focusing on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts have the potential advantage of high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts have the potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins reveals that Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts, featuring PtGa alloys, are effective due to Ga's interaction with Pt. The support composition, Mg(Ga)(Al)O, enhances stability against sintering and coke formation. These catalysts are industrially applied in producing light alkenes like ethylene, propylene, and n-butene, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments highlight high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in this field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature highlights platinum on magnesium aluminate's efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, comparisons with metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins are not provided, leaving the compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages of metal oxide-based catalysts unaddressed.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt-based catalysts are favored for commercial use due to their unique properties, while metal oxides, notably CrOx, are industrially applied. Pt excels in activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizes CC cleavage, making it the sole noble metal in commercial catalysts. The Pacol process, using alumina-supported Pt, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, initially for butadiene and later for propylene production, showcases Pt's industrial significance. Metal oxides, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have shown promise and are successfully tested in the field.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, due to PtGa alloys that inhibit product adsorption and suppress coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio achieves peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition to the feed boosts alkene formation and selectivity, which remains near 100%, with less impact on deactivation. This catalyst's high performance attributes are advantageous for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This highlights the potential advantages of metal oxide-based catalysts combined with noble metals, offering better activity and stability for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. This ratio corresponds to a PtIn alloy containing 12% In, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing the catalyst's stability and making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's performance is strongly dependent on the In/Pt ratio, with the most significant decrease in carbon accumulation observed as the ratio increases from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with small domains of graphitic carbon forming during dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for paraffin-to-olefin conversion. Pt-based catalysts, developed in the 1960s, selectively dehydrogenate long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, leading to the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxides containing vanadium are employed, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which undergoes beta-elimination to ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxides are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling studies. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts focus on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, offering potential advantages in cost and stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins highlights the effectiveness of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts. The presence of Ga in these catalysts facilitates the formation of PtGa alloys, enhancing activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. The support composition, Mg(Ga)(Al)O, is crucial for preventing sintering and coke formation, ensuring stability. These catalysts are industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, essential for commodity chemicals and polymers. While recent developments show high activity and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, the literature lacks a detailed comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum supported on magnesium aluminate (Pt/MgAl2O4) has shown efficiency, particularly for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins like propane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the literature does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, limiting a comprehensive analysis of compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably platinum (Pt), and metal oxides, including CrOx and others like gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are key. Pt, due to its unique bond activation and low CC cleavage activity, is the sole noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, utilizing alumina-supported Pt, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, using Pt, was later developed for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxides, particularly CrOx, have industrial applications and show promise, with successful tests on various oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Its performance is enhanced by PtGa alloys, which dilute Pt ensembles and inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing methane formation. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios (1.45.4 for peak activity and 5.4 for nearly 100% selectivity) have been identified. Hydrogen addition to the feed boosts alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but excessive hydrogen can lead to alkene hydrogenation, reducing dehydrogenation rates. Hydrogen addition has minimal effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. These findings highlight the potential of this catalyst for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, decreased deactivation, and reduced carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium's impact on the metallic phase structure, particularly after high-temperature reduction, leads to blocking and dilution effects on platinum sites, improving selectivity and stability. This suggests metal oxide-based catalysts combined with noble metals offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, making them potentially more effective in industrial applications for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst, featuring Pt nanoparticles dispersed on a hydrotalcite-like support with In and Al, shows high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. The catalyst's performance is strongly influenced by the bulk In/Pt ratio, with maximum activity at a ratio of 0.48, corresponding to a PtIn alloy with 12% In. At this ratio, selectivity to alkene is nearly 100%, and coke deposition is significantly reduced, enhancing stability and selectivity. This makes the catalyst a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The alloying of Pt with In decreases carbon accumulation during dehydrogenation, with the most significant decrease observed as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, which forms small graphitic domains. The PtIn nanoparticles' size remains unchanged after use, indicating that carbon accumulation is the primary cause of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins production. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity exceeding 3 million MTA. However, producing ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, causing excessive coking or requiring costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from methane oxidative coupling investigations. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to instability at high temperatures. Catalysts like Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 have shown high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, some catalysts show deactivation over time, and maintaining activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process. Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been used in the dehydrogenation of light olefins since the mid-1960s, initially for long-chain linear olefins production for biodegradable detergents. Pt-based catalysts have high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, allows noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without regeneration shutdowns. These catalysts are supported on alumina, which can accelerate side reactions and enhance coke formation due to acidic sites. To control acidity, alkali or alkaline earth metals are used, and -alumina supports with no acidity can also be utilized. Modified catalysts have high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins, with suppressed coke formation and improved stability. Alumina is chosen as a support due to its thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain high platinum dispersion, crucial for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. The catalytic reaction rate is limited by intraparticle mass transfer, requiring an appropriate pore structure for optimal catalytic performance. Pt catalysts are used in the dehydrogenation of long-chain paraffins under mild temperature conditions, allowing for long catalyst life and high productivity without regeneration facilities. However, dehydrogenation of light paraffins requires higher temperatures for economically attractive conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and the need for frequent regeneration. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. These catalysts have shown high activity and selectivity for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins. Recent developments include vanadia-silica-zirconia catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation, with high propylene selectivity at temperatures below 700°C. Pt catalysts have been widely used industrially for light olefins production, while metal oxide-based catalysts have been used for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts have potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts focus on improving selectivity and stability for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins reveals that Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts are effective due to the formation of PtGa alloys, which enhance stability against sintering and coke formation. These catalysts are industrially applied in the production of light alkenes like ethylene, propylene, and n-butene. Recent developments highlight high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides in this field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature discusses the efficiency of Pt/MgAl2O4 in high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation with trace sulfur. However, it lacks direct comparisons with metal oxide-based catalysts, focusing instead on sulfur's role in deactivation and Pt/MgAl2O4's stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxides like CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are key. Pt, due to its superior CH bond activation and low CC cleavage activity, is the sole noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, using alumina-supported Pt, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, initially for butadiene and later propylene, showcases Pt's industrial application. Metal oxides, particularly CrOx, have industrial use, with other oxides showing promising results.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The catalyst's performance is attributed to PtGa alloys, which inhibit product alkene adsorption and suppress methane formation. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. This catalyst offers potential advantages, including high activity, selectivity, and stability, crucial for industrial light olefin production. The addition of hydrogen to the feed increases alkene formation rates but can lead to alkene hydrogenation beyond optimal H2 concentration. Interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced catalyst deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, potentially benefiting industrial applications for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high effectiveness and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum activity at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's performance highlights the potential advantages of noble metal-based catalysts over metal oxides in nonoxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, leading to the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxides containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene is around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxides are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling studies. These catalysts produce ethylene as the primary C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, offering potential advantages in lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, has been developed for alkane dehydrogenation, with Ga interacting with Pt to form PtGa alloys, enhancing its effectiveness. The support's composition, Mg(Ga)(Al)O, is crucial for stability against sintering and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in producing light alkenes like ethylene and propylene. Recent developments include a series of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature discusses platinum on magnesium aluminate's efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or detail their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum (Pt) is the primary noble metal catalyst due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, making it the only noble metal in commercial use. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promising results. The Pacol process, using alumina-supported Pt, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology. UOP's Oleflex process, initially for butadiene and later for propylene production, exemplifies Pt's industrial significance. Metal oxides, especially CrOx, have been industrially utilized, demonstrating their effectiveness in this field.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst shows high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The catalyst's performance is enhanced by PtGa alloys, which dilute Pt ensembles and inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired products like methane. Ga addition also suppresses coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and higher stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. The catalyst's high activity, selectivity, and stability are advantageous for industrial light olefin production. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation but can also lead to alkene hydrogenation, reducing the net dehydrogenation rate. Interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced catalyst deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, potentially enhancing industrial applications for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high effectiveness for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, achieving maximum activity at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, with nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. The alloying of Pt with In reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's performance is strongly dependent on the In/Pt ratio, with optimal results at 12% In content. The accumulation of carbon, which decreases significantly as the In/Pt ratio increases, is attributed to catalyst deactivation. Graphitic carbon domains form during dehydrogenation, with location dependent on the alkane composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. In the 1970s, UOP introduced continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology for noble metal catalysts, enabling stable activity for several years without shutdowns. This technology, known as the UOP OleflexTM process, allows for the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity of over 3 million MTA. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, which cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. The surface ethoxide can be further oxidized to make surface acetate, leading to acetic acid on hydrolysis. Catalysts can be made selective for either ethylene or acetic acid by modifications in the elemental makeup and suitable adjustments of reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Catalysts such as Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 have been reported to give high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, some catalysts show deactivation over time, and the maintenance of activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the Mg(Ga)(Al)O support's influence on metal particle stability and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of Pt/MgAl2O4 in the high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing the catalyst's performance. However, the literature does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or detail their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    