Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins: composition, effectiveness, and industrial applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum (Pt) is the predominant noble metal catalyst due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, making it commercially viable. Historically, the Pacol process, using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, employing Pt, was later developed for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have been industrially utilized with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promising results, offering alternatives to noble metals.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The catalyst's effectiveness is attributed to PtGa alloys that inhibit product alkene adsorption and suppress undesired products like methane. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios achieve peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition boosts alkene formation but can lead to alkene hydrogenation beyond a certain concentration. Selectivity remains near 100% regardless of hydrogen addition. These catalysts offer potential advantages in industrial light olefin production due to their high performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium's effect on the acidity function is minimal but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can boost activity and stability in dehydrogenation processes, offering industrial advantages for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates the effectiveness of noble metal-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. The catalyst, featuring Pt nanoparticles on a hydrotalcite-like support with In and Al, forms bimetallic PtIn particles upon reduction, with an average diameter of 1 nm. Activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation are maximized at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial applications in light olefin production. The accumulation of carbon decreases most notably as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48, with more gradual reduction at higher ratios. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with small graphitic carbon domains forming during dehydrogenation, dependent on the alkane composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene at temperatures of 300-500°C with reducible metal oxides containing vanadium, achieving approximately 70% selectivity to ethylene at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling investigations. Recent developments include catalysts like Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, and SrFeO3δClσ, which have shown high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. Noble metal-based catalysts have high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts offer potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins reveals that Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts, featuring PtGa alloys, are effective due to Ga's interaction with Pt. The Mg(Ga)(Al)O support enhances stability against sintering and coke formation. These catalysts are industrially applied in producing light alkenes like ethylene, propylene, and n-butene, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments highlight a series of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, the literature lacks a detailed comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in this field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature discusses platinum on magnesium aluminate's efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or detail their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum (Pt) stands out among noble metals due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, making it the only noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, first commercialized in 1968, utilized an alumina-supported Pt catalyst, while UOP's Oleflex process extended this technology for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications with promising results from gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, due to PtGa alloys that inhibit product adsorption and undesired reactions. Ga addition suppresses coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios improve activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition boosts alkene formation but can lead to alkene hydrogenation, reducing dehydrogenation rates. Alkene selectivity remains high, and less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no clear correlation between coke and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts outperform pure Pt/Al2O3, enhancing selectivity to propylene, reducing catalyst deactivation, and minimizing carbon formation. Gallium subtly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This highlights the potential of metal oxide-based catalysts combined with noble metals for increased activity and stability in industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's performance is strongly dependent on the In/Pt ratio, with maximum activity at 12% In content. Coke deposition, observed after use, significantly decreases with increasing In/Pt ratio, from 0 to 0.48, affecting catalyst deactivation. Graphitic carbon domains form during dehydrogenation, with location dependent on the alkane composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. Pt-based catalysts were developed in the 1960s for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins production. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, especially propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity exceeding 3 million MTA. However, ethane dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts is limited due to severe operating conditions causing excessive coking or requiring costly vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are employed. Ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which undergoes beta-elimination to ethylene. Surface ethoxide can be further oxidized to acetate, leading to acetic acid. Catalyst selectivity for ethylene or acetic acid can be adjusted by modifying elemental makeup and reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene is around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling investigations. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Various metal oxide catalysts have shown high selectivity to ethylene at high ethane conversion. However, maintaining activity and selectivity over time is crucial for an economical process. Noble metal-based catalysts, especially Pt, have been used since the mid-1960s for dehydrogenating light olefins, initially for long-chain linear olefins production. CCR technology allows noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without regeneration shutdowns. Alumina supports, with acidic sites that can accelerate side reactions and enhance coke formation, are used. Alkali or alkaline earth metals control acidity, and -alumina supports with no acidity can be utilized. Modified catalysts have high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins, with suppressed coke formation and improved stability. Alumina is chosen for its thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain high platinum dispersion, crucial for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. The catalytic reaction rate is limited by intraparticle mass transfer, requiring an appropriate pore structure for optimal performance. Pt catalysts are used for dehydrogenating long-chain paraffins under mild conditions, allowing long catalyst life and high productivity without regeneration facilities. However, dehydrogenating light paraffins requires higher temperatures for economically attractive conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and frequent regeneration needs. Metal oxide-based catalysts have been used in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, showing high activity and selectivity for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins. Recent developments include vanadia-silica-zirconia catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation, with high propylene selectivity at temperatures below 700°C. Pt catalysts are widely used industrially for light olefins production, while metal oxide-based catalysts are used for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts have potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions. Recent advancements in metal oxide-based catalysts focus on enhancing selectivity and stability for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, has been developed for alkane dehydrogenation, showing high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane conversion to light alkenes. The presence of Ga in the catalyst forms PtGa alloys, enhancing its effectiveness. The support composition, Mg(Ga)(Al)O, is critical for metal particle stability against sintering and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of ethylene, propylene, and n-butene, key components for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent advancements include evaluating a series of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses the efficiency of Pt/MgAl2O4 in the dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane, with sulfur suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation. However, it does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or detail their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt-based catalysts excel due to their unique activation properties, making Pt the only noble metal in commercial use. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, are industrially significant with promising results from gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides. Pt's role in the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology, the Pacol process (1968), and later in UOP's Oleflex process for butadiene and propylene production, underscores its effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloy formation inhibits product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired methane production and reducing deactivation. Ga addition suppresses coke formation, enhancing stability. Peak activity and selectivity are achieved by optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio, with selectivity reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4. This catalyst's high performance, selectivity, and stability offer significant advantages for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced catalyst deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, making them potentially more effective and stable for industrial applications in light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst, featuring Pt nanoparticles on a hydrotalcite-like support with In and Al, demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. Upon reduction, PtIn bimetallic particles form, with an average diameter of 1 nm. The catalyst's performance is significantly influenced by the bulk In/Pt ratio, with maximum activity at a ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In notably reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The accumulation of carbon decreases sharply as the bulk In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48, with a more gradual decrease at higher ratios. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with graphitic carbon domains forming during dehydrogenation, dependent on the alkane composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. In the 1970s, UOP introduced continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology for noble metal catalysts, enabling stable activity for years without shutdowns. This technology, known as the UOP OleflexTM process, allows for the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, which cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene at temperatures of 300-500°C, where reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used. Ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. The surface ethoxide can be further oxidized to make surface acetate, leading to acetic acid on hydrolysis. Catalysts can be made selective for either ethylene or acetic acid by modifications in the elemental makeup and suitable adjustments of reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to PtGa alloys and the support's influence on metal particle stability. This catalyst is industrially applied in producing light alkenes like ethylene, propylene, and n-butene. However, the text lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature focuses on Pt/MgAl2O4 catalysts' efficiency in high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation with trace sulfur. However, it lacks direct comparisons with metal oxide-based catalysts. Pt on alumina is prone to sintering in oxidizing environments, influenced by metal-support interactions and sulfur compounds. No detailed information is provided on metal oxide-based catalysts' compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum (Pt) stands out among noble metal-based catalysts for its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, leading to its exclusive commercial use. Historically, the Pacol process, using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, initially for butadiene and later for propylene production, further highlights Pt's industrial significance. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications due to their effectiveness, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides also showing promise.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloys formed inhibit product alkene adsorption and undesired methane formation, while Ga addition suppresses coke formation, enhancing stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition to the feed boosts alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but excessive hydrogen can lead to alkene hydrogenation, reducing dehydrogenation rates. Alkene selectivity remains high, unaffected by hydrogen addition. The extent of deactivation is lower for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, despite higher coke deposition in the former case.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts outperform pure Pt/Al2O3, enhancing propylene selectivity and reducing catalyst deactivation and carbon formation. Gallium subtly alters the acidity function and significantly modifies the metallic phase, improving performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high effectiveness and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum activity at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. This ratio corresponds to a PtIn alloy containing 12% In, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's performance highlights the potential advantages of noble metal-based catalysts over metal oxide-based alternatives in nonoxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. In the 1970s, UOP introduced continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology for noble metal catalysts, enabling stable activity for several years without shutdowns. This technology, known as the UOP OleflexTM process, allows for the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, which cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. The surface ethoxide can be further oxidized to make surface acetate, leading to acetic acid on hydrolysis. Catalysts can be made selective for either ethylene or acetic acid by modifications in the elemental makeup and suitable adjustments of reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Catalysts such as Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 have been reported to give high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, some catalysts show deactivation over time, and the maintenance of activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins reveals that Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, a noble metal-based catalyst, is effective due to the presence of Ga, which forms PtGa alloys. The support composition, Mg(Ga)(Al)O, enhances stability against sintering and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments highlight its high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, in terms of effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of platinum supported on magnesium aluminate for the dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, particularly propane, isobutane, and isopentane, in high-temperature, long-cycle processes. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, indicating a gap in the available data.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt is the sole noble metal used commercially due to its superior CH bond activation and low CC cleavage activity. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promise. The Pacol process, using Pt on alumina, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, employing Pt, was later developed for butadiene and propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, due to PtGa alloys that inhibit product alkene adsorption and undesired methane formation. Ga addition suppresses coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios (1.45-5.4) achieve peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition boosts alkene formation but can lead to alkene hydrogenation beyond a certain concentration, with little effect on selectivity. Ethane dehydrogenation shows lower deactivation despite higher coke deposition compared to propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and lower carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium has a minimal impact on the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxide-based catalysts with noble metals can offer advantages in terms of activity and stability for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, corresponding to a 12% In PtIn alloy. The catalyst, prepared by dispersing Pt nanoparticles onto a hydrotalcite-like support, forms bimetallic PtIn particles averaging 1 nm in diameter upon reduction. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity to nearly 100% for alkene production. The catalyst's high performance and stability make it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production, with minimal activity loss over time, attributed to carbon accumulation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, demonstrating high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins production. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. The UOP OleflexTM process, introduced in the 1970s, enabled continuous catalyst regeneration, allowing for the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, for alkane dehydrogenation shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloys formed and the support's composition, which enhances metal particle stability and reduces coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments include evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O series for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. The text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or detail their effectiveness, applications, or recent developments in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature discusses platinum on magnesium aluminate's efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, comparisons with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins are lacking, with no information on their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt-based catalysts are favored for commercial use due to their unique ability to activate paraffinic CH bonds without cleaving CC bonds, as highlighted in quote [4]. The Pacol process, first commercialized in 1968 (quote [5]), and UOP's Oleflex process for butadiene and propylene production exemplify Pt's industrial application. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx (quote [2]), have also seen industrial use, with promising results from gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides (quote [3]).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloys formed inhibit product alkene adsorption and undesired methane formation, while Ga addition suppresses coke formation, enhancing stability. Peak activity and selectivity are achieved at a Ga/Pt ratio of 1.45.4, with selectivity reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation initially but can lead to alkene hydrogenation beyond the peak activity, reducing dehydrogenation rates. Despite this, alkene selectivity remains near 100%. These findings highlight the potential of this catalyst for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium slightly affects the acidity but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests metal oxide-based catalysts combined with noble metals offer advantages in activity and stability for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high effectiveness and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum activity at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. This ratio corresponds to a PtIn alloy containing 12% In, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability. The catalyst's high performance and selectivity make it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The accumulation of carbon decreases as the In/Pt ratio increases, with the most significant reduction from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with small graphitic carbon domains forming during dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. Pt-based catalysts, developed in the 1960s, selectively dehydrogenate long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxides containing vanadium are employed, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxides are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling studies. These catalysts primarily produce ethylene, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have shown high selectivity to ethylene at high ethane conversion, though some show deactivation over time. Noble metal-based catalysts, especially Pt, have been used since the mid-1960s for dehydrogenating light olefins, initially for long-chain linear olefins for biodegradable detergents. CCR technology allows noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without regeneration shutdowns. Supported on alumina, which can accelerate side reactions and enhance coke formation, these catalysts use alkali or alkaline earth metals to control acidity. Modified catalysts have high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins, with suppressed coke formation and improved stability. Alumina is chosen for its thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain high platinum dispersion, crucial for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. The catalytic reaction rate is limited by intraparticle mass transfer, requiring an optimal pore structure for performance. Pt catalysts are used for dehydrogenating long-chain paraffins under mild conditions, allowing long catalyst life and high productivity without regeneration facilities. However, dehydrogenating light paraffins requires higher temperatures for economic conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and frequent regeneration needs. Metal oxide-based catalysts have been used in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, showing high activity and selectivity. Recent developments focus on improving selectivity and stability for dehydrogenating light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts are advantageous for high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts offer potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the support's influence on metal particle stability and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments focus on evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O series for dehydrogenation, highlighting its potential advantages. The text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature discusses platinum on magnesium aluminate's efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, it does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, leaving their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins unexplored.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxides like CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are utilized. Pt, due to its superior CH bond activation and low CC cleavage activity, is the sole noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, using alumina-supported Pt, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, initially for butadiene and later propylene production, highlights Pt's industrial significance. Metal oxides, particularly CrOx, have industrial applications, with promising results from gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloys formed enhance performance by diluting Pt ensembles, inhibiting product alkene adsorption, and suppressing methane formation. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition to the feed boosts alkene formation via enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but excessive hydrogen can lead to alkene hydrogenation, reducing dehydrogenation rates. The catalyst's high activity, selectivity, and stability are advantageous for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, decreased deactivation, and reduced carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates the effectiveness of noble metal-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. The catalyst, featuring Pt nanoparticles on a hydrotalcite-like support with In and Al, forms bimetallic PtIn particles upon reduction. Activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation are maximized at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's performance is strongly dependent on the In/Pt ratio, with maximum activity at 12% In content. Coke deposition, a major deactivation factor, is notably reduced, especially at the optimal In/Pt ratio, improving the catalyst's longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene at temperatures ranging from 300-500°C with reducible metal oxides containing vanadium, and above 600°C with non-reducible and reducible metal oxides. These catalysts have shown high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane, with selectivity around 70% at 70% conversion. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, with some showing deactivation over time, highlighting the need for maintaining activity and selectivity for economical processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the formation of PtGa alloys. Its industrial application is in producing light alkenes, essential for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments include evaluating similar catalysts for dehydrogenation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of Pt/MgAl2O4 in high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, with sulfur suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation. However, it does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    