Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins: composition, effectiveness, and industrial applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt-based catalysts excel due to their unique activation properties, making Pt the only noble metal in commercial use [4]. Historically, the Pacol process, utilizing Pt on alumina, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology [5]. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promising results [3].", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The catalyst's performance is attributed to PtGa alloys, which dilute Pt ensembles and inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired products like methane. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity, with selectivity reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4. The catalyst's high activity, selectivity, and stability make it advantageous for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts exhibit enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium's effect on the acidity function is minimal but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that metal oxide-based catalysts, when combined with noble metals, offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, making them potentially more effective for industrial applications in light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. At this ratio, the selectivity to alkene is nearly 100%, and the alloying of Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition. The catalyst's stability and selectivity make it a promising candidate for industrial applications in light olefin production. The formation of PtIn bimetallic particles, with an average diameter of 1 nm, is crucial for the catalyst's performance. The accumulation of carbon decreases as the bulk In/Pt ratio increases, with the most significant reduction from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with small domains of graphitic carbon formed during dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for paraffin dehydrogenation to olefins. Pt-based catalysts were developed in the 1960s for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, leading to the UOP OleflexTM process for light olefin production, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, with selectivity to ethylene around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling investigations. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Recent developments in metal oxide catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst for alkane dehydrogenation shows high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane conversion into light alkenes, essential for commodity chemicals and polymers. Its effectiveness is attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the Mg(Ga)(Al)O support, which enhances stability against sintering and coke formation. Recent developments include evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O series for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of Pt/MgAl2O4 in high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, crucial for catalyst stability. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx and oxides of gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum, are utilized. Pt, due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, is the sole noble metal in commercial use. Metal oxides, particularly CrOx, have industrial applications, with promising results from gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Its enhanced performance is attributed to PtGa alloys, which dilute Pt ensembles and inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired products like methane. Ga addition suppresses coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and higher stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. The catalyst's high activity, selectivity, and stability are advantageous for industrial light olefin production. The addition of hydrogen to the feed increases alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but beyond a peak, it contributes to alkene hydrogenation, reducing the net dehydrogenation rate. Interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests metal oxide-based catalysts, when combined with noble metals, offer advantages in activity and stability for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst, featuring Pt nanoparticles dispersed on a hydrotalcite-like support with In and Al, demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. Optimal performance is achieved with a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, forming a 1 nm PtIn bimetallic alloy. This ratio maximizes activity and nearly 100% selectivity to alkene, while significantly reducing coke deposition. The catalyst's stability and selectivity make it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. Alloying Pt with In decreases carbon accumulation, with the most significant reduction observed as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with ethane dehydrogenation showing less activity loss than propane dehydrogenation over time.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. The introduction of continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology in the 1970s enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, leading to the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from methane oxidative coupling investigations. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Catalysts such as Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 have shown high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, maintaining activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, has been developed for alkane dehydrogenation. Its effectiveness is attributed to the PtGa alloy formation, influenced by the Mg(Ga)(Al)O support, which enhances stability against sintering and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, such as ethylene, propylene, and n-butene, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent advancements highlight its high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of platinum supported on magnesium aluminate for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx and oxides of gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum, are utilized. Pt stands out for its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, making it the sole noble metal in commercial use. Historically, the Pacol process, employing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology. UOP's Oleflex process, using Pt, was later developed for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxide-based catalysts, with CrOx being industrially significant, have shown promise, as have other tested oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The catalyst's enhanced performance is attributed to PtGa alloys, which dilute Pt ensembles and inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired product formation. Ga addition also suppresses coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and higher stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. The catalyst's high activity, selectivity, and stability are crucial for industrial light olefin production. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but beyond a peak, it contributes to alkene hydrogenation, reducing the net dehydrogenation rate. Interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, decreased deactivation, and reduced carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium has a minimal impact on the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in terms of activity and stability for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability. The catalyst's performance is attributed to the formation of 1 nm PtIn bimetallic particles, with the size unaffected by use. Deactivation is linked to carbon accumulation, which is significantly reduced by increasing the In/Pt ratio. This catalyst shows promise for industrial light olefin production due to its high stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. Pt-based catalysts were developed in the 1960s for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, with some catalysts showing high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane but also showing deactivation over time. Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been used in the dehydrogenation of light olefins since the mid-1960s, initially for the production of long-chain linear olefins for biodegradable detergents. Pt-based catalysts have high activity for the dehydrogenation of paraffins to olefins. In the 1970s, continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology was introduced, allowing noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for several years without shutdown for regeneration. These catalysts are supported on alumina, which has acidic sites that can accelerate side reactions and enhance coke formation. To control acidity, alkali or alkaline earth metals are used, and -alumina supports with no acidity can also be utilized. Modified catalysts have high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins, with suppressed coke formation and improved stability. Alumina is used as a support due to its thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain high platinum dispersion, which is crucial for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. The catalytic reaction rate is limited by intraparticle mass transfer, and an appropriate pore structure must be determined for optimal catalytic performance. Pt catalysts are used in the dehydrogenation of long-chain paraffins under mild temperature conditions, allowing for long catalyst life and high productivity without the need for regeneration facilities. However, the dehydrogenation of light paraffins requires higher temperatures for economically attractive conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and the need for frequent regeneration. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. These catalysts have been reported to have high activity and selectivity for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins. Recent developments include the use of vanadia-silica-zirconia catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation, which have shown high selectivity to propylene at temperatures below 700 C. Pt catalysts have been widely used in industrial applications for the production of light olefins, while metal oxide-based catalysts have been used for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts have the advantage of high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts have the potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions. Pt catalysts have the potential advantage of high activity and selectivity for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, while metal oxide-based catalysts have the potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the Mg(Ga)(Al)O support's influence on metal particle stability and coke formation prevention. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments include evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O series for enhanced dehydrogenation efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature discusses the effectiveness of Pt/MgAl2O4 in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, particularly propane, isobutane, and isopentane, noting its efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing performance. However, the text lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, in terms of composition, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum (Pt) is the primary noble metal catalyst due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, making it the only noble metal in commercial use. Pt's effectiveness was first recognized in the Pacol process, commercialized in 1968, and later in UOP's Oleflex process for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxide catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promising results in testing.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Enhanced performance is attributed to PtGa alloys, which inhibit product adsorption and suppress coke formation, leading to higher stability. Optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio achieves peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with selectivity remaining near 100%. The presence of Ga suppresses coke formation, with less coke formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation, compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium has a minimal effect on the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, with potential benefits in industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. At this ratio, the catalyst achieves nearly 100% selectivity to alkene and significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability. The formation of a PtIn bimetallic alloy with an average diameter of 1 nm is crucial for these properties. The catalyst's high performance and stability make it a promising candidate for industrial applications in the production of light olefins. The decrease in carbon accumulation is most significant as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48, with slower reduction at higher ratios. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with graphitic carbon forming during dehydrogenation, the location of which depends on the alkane undergoing the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, demonstrating high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. The introduction of continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology in the 1970s enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity exceeding 3 million MTA. However, producing ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, causing excessive coking or requiring costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are employed. Ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. The surface ethoxide can be further oxidized to make surface acetate, leading to acetic acid on hydrolysis. Catalysts can be made selective for either ethylene or acetic acid by modifications in the elemental makeup and suitable adjustments of reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Catalysts such as Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 have been reported to give high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, some catalysts show deactivation over time, and the maintenance of activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process. Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been used in the dehydrogenation of light olefins since the mid-1960s, initially for the production of long-chain linear olefins for biodegradable detergents. Pt-based catalysts have high activity for the dehydrogenation of paraffins to olefins. In the 1970s, continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology was introduced, allowing noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for several years without shutdown for regeneration. These catalysts are supported on alumina, which has acidic sites that can accelerate side reactions and enhance coke formation. To control acidity, alkali or alkaline earth metals are used, and -alumina supports with no acidity can also be utilized. Modified catalysts have high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins, with suppressed coke formation and improved stability. Alumina is used as a support due to its thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain high platinum dispersion, which is crucial for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. The catalytic reaction rate is limited by intraparticle mass transfer, and an appropriate pore structure must be determined for optimal catalytic performance. Pt catalysts are used in the dehydrogenation of long-chain paraffins under mild temperature conditions, allowing for long catalyst life and high productivity without the need for regeneration facilities. However, the dehydrogenation of light paraffins requires higher temperatures for economically attractive conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and the need for frequent regeneration. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. These catalysts have been reported to have high activity and selectivity for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins. Recent developments include the use of vanadia-silica-zirconia catalysts for propane oxydehydrogenation, which have shown high selectivity to propylene at temperatures below 700 C. Pt catalysts have been widely used in industrial applications for the production of light olefins, while metal oxide-based catalysts have been used for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts have the advantage of high activity and selectivity, while metal oxide-based catalysts have the potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions. Pt catalysts have the potential advantage of high activity and selectivity for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, while metal oxide-based catalysts have the potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the formation of PtGa alloys. Its industrial application is in producing light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments focus on evaluating similar catalysts. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum supported on magnesium aluminate is efficient for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, with trace sulfur suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, and does not cover their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in this field.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably platinum (Pt), and metal oxides, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are utilized. Pt, due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, is the sole noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, first commercialized in 1968, employed an alumina-supported Pt catalyst. Metal oxides, particularly CrOx, have been industrially applied, with promising results from gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The catalyst's enhanced performance is due to PtGa alloys, which dilute Pt ensembles and inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired product formation. Ga addition also suppresses coke formation, reducing deactivation and enhancing stability. Optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio achieves peak activity and selectivity. The catalyst's effectiveness is strongly dependent on Ga content, with peak activity for both ethane and propane dehydrogenation at Ga/Pt = 1.45.4. Selectivity is a monotonic function of Ga/Pt, reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4. Hydrogen addition increases alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but beyond the peak, it contributes to alkene hydrogenation, reducing the net dehydrogenation rate. Hydrogen addition has little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. The presence of Ga suppresses coke formation, with less coke formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and lower carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium's minor impact on acidity but significant effect on the metallic phase structure after high-temperature reduction improves propane dehydrogenation performance, suggesting metal oxide-based catalysts can boost noble metal catalysts' activity and stability in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, corresponding to a 12% In PtIn alloy. The alloying of Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The selectivity to alkene is nearly 100% at the optimal In/Pt ratio, and the decrease in carbon accumulation is most significant as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, which forms small graphitic domains during dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. In the 1970s, UOP introduced continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology for noble metal catalysts, enabling stable activity for years without shutdowns. This technology, known as the UOP OleflexTM process, facilitates the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity of over 3 million MTA. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, which cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used. Ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. The surface ethoxide can be further oxidized to make surface acetate, leading to acetic acid on hydrolysis. Catalysts can be made selective for either ethylene or acetic acid by modifications in the elemental makeup and suitable adjustments of reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Catalysts such as Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 have been reported to give high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, some catalysts show deactivation over time, and the maintenance of activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the support's composition. This catalyst is industrially applied for producing light alkenes, essential for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent advancements include evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O series for dehydrogenation. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum supported on magnesium aluminate demonstrates high efficiency for dehydrogenating lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane, at high temperatures over long cycles. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing the catalyst's stability. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, and information on their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in this field is not provided.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxides like CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are utilized. Pt stands out due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity, making it the only noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, using alumina-supported Pt, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. Metal oxides, especially CrOx, have shown industrial success and promising results, with other oxides also being effectively tested.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloy formation inhibits product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired methane production and coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and higher stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. This catalyst's high performance, selectivity, and stability are advantageous for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's effectiveness is strongly dependent on Ga content, with peak activity for both ethane and propane dehydrogenation at Ga/Pt = 1.45.4, and selectivity reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts exhibit enhanced selectivity to propylene, decreased deactivation, and reduced carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, particularly after high-temperature reduction, leading to improved performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in terms of activity and stability for industrial dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. The formation of a PtIn bimetallic alloy with an average diameter of 1 nm significantly reduces coke deposition during reactions, enhancing stability and selectivity. The catalyst's performance is strongly dependent on the In/Pt ratio, with nearly 100% selectivity to alkene at the optimal ratio. The alloying of Pt with In decreases carbon accumulation, making this catalyst a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The literature highlights the potential advantages of this Pt-based catalyst over metal oxide-based catalysts in terms of activity, selectivity, and stability, although a direct comparison is not provided.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, leading to the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling investigations. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Recent developments in metal oxide catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts have the potential advantage of high activity and selectivity for dehydrogenation, while metal oxide-based catalysts have the potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the formation of PtGa alloys. Its industrial application is in producing light alkenes, essential for commodity chemicals and polymers. While the literature highlights recent developments in noble metal-based catalysts, it lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, in terms of effectiveness, industrial applications, and recent advancements in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of Pt/MgAl2O4 in high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane, with trace sulfur suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation. However, it does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, nor does it discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt is the primary noble metal catalyst, favored for its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promise. Pt's unique properties make it the only noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst, was a pioneering industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology. UOP's Oleflex process, employing Pt, was later developed for butadiene and propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively. The PtGa alloys inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired methane formation, and Ga addition reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios achieve peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition boosts alkene formation via enhanced dehydrogenation of surface alkyl species, but excessive hydrogen can lead to alkene hydrogenation, reducing dehydrogenation rates. Interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no direct link to deactivation, indicating potential advantages in industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts outperform pure Pt/Al2O3, enhancing propylene selectivity while reducing catalyst deactivation and carbon formation. Gallium's impact on the metallic phase structure, particularly after high-temperature reduction, leads to blocking and dilution effects on platinum sites, improving selectivity and stability. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, making them potentially more effective for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. At this ratio, the catalyst achieves nearly 100% selectivity to alkene and shows reduced coke deposition, enhancing stability. The formation of PtIn bimetallic particles, averaging 1 nm in diameter, is crucial for these properties. The catalyst's performance highlights its potential for industrial applications in light olefin production, showcasing the advantages of noble metal-based catalysts over metal oxide-based alternatives in terms of activity, selectivity, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. Pt-based catalysts, developed in the 1960s, selectively dehydrogenate long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins production. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, allows noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, enabling the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, ethane dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts is limited due to severe operating conditions causing excessive coking or requiring costly vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxides containing vanadium are employed, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which undergoes beta-elimination to ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxides are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling investigations. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts focus on improving selectivity and stability for dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts have high activity and selectivity for dehydrogenation, while metal oxide-based catalysts offer potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the support's composition. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. While the literature highlights recent developments in noble metal-based catalysts, it does not provide a detailed comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum supported on magnesium aluminate has shown efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation with trace sulfur in the feed. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, regarding their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    