Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins: composition, effectiveness, and industrial applications'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxides, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are key. Pt stands out for its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and minimal CC cleavage activity, making it the sole noble metal in commercial use. Historically, the Pacol process, using alumina-supported Pt, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, an advancement, targets butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxides, especially CrOx, have industrial applications, with other oxides showing promising results.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst for alkane dehydrogenation exhibits high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane. The PtGa alloys within the catalyst dilute Pt ensembles, inhibit product alkene adsorption, and suppress methane formation. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Optimal Ga/Pt ratios achieve peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition increases alkene formation rates due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but excessive hydrogen can lead to alkene hydrogenation, reducing dehydrogenation rates. Alkene selectivity remains high, unaffected by hydrogen addition. Ga suppresses coke formation, with less coke formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and lower carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium slightly affects the acidity but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance and stability in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, making them promising for industrial light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst for ethane and propane dehydrogenation shows high activity and selectivity, with maximum performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. At this ratio, the selectivity to alkene is nearly 100%, and the alloying of Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition. The catalyst's stability and selectivity make it a promising option for industrial light olefin production. The PtIn bimetallic alloy, with an average diameter of 1 nm, forms upon reduction, and its composition affects the catalyst's performance. The accumulation of carbon decreases as the bulk In/Pt ratio increases, with the most significant reduction from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with graphitic carbon domains forming during dehydrogenation, the location of which depends on the alkane composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. Pt-based catalysts were developed in the 1960s for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. The introduction of continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology in the 1970s enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, leading to the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene at temperatures of 300-500°C, with vanadium-containing reducible metal oxides. Ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, has been developed for alkane dehydrogenation, with Ga interacting with Pt to form PtGa alloys. The support composition, Mg(Ga)(Al)O, enhances metal particle stability and reduces coke formation. This catalyst is used industrially for producing light alkenes like ethylene, propylene, and n-butene. Recent developments include evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with high activity, selectivity, and stability. The text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum supported on magnesium aluminate has shown efficiency for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, particularly propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing the catalyst's performance. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, in terms of their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt is the sole noble metal catalyst due to its unique bond activation properties, as seen in the Pacol and Oleflex industrial processes. Metal oxides, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with promising results from gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene production from ethane and propane, respectively. The catalyst's performance is enhanced by PtGa alloys, which dilute Pt ensembles and inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired products like methane. Ga addition also suppresses coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and higher stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. The catalyst's high activity, selectivity, and stability are advantageous for industrial light olefin production. The Ga/Pt ratio significantly influences activity and selectivity, with peak performance at Ga/Pt = 1.45.4. Selectivity reaches nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation rates due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but beyond the peak, it contributes to alkene hydrogenation, reducing the net dehydrogenation rate. Hydrogen addition has little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. The presence of Ga suppresses coke formation, with less coke formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and lower carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium has a minimal effect on the acidity function but modifies the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxide-based catalysts with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst for ethane and propane dehydrogenation shows high activity and selectivity, with maximum performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability. The catalyst's performance is strongly dependent on the In/Pt ratio, with optimal activity at 12% In content. The decrease in carbon accumulation is significant, especially as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with more significant activity loss in propane dehydrogenation than in ethane dehydrogenation. The PtIn bimetallic alloy's size remains constant, indicating that deactivation is not due to particle size changes. This catalyst is a promising candidate for industrial applications in light olefin production due to its high stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, demonstrating high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were refined for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. The introduction of continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology in the 1970s for noble metal catalysts allowed them to maintain stable activity for years without shutdowns, enabling the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, notably propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity exceeding 3 million MTA. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions that cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been utilized in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are employed. Ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. The surface ethoxide can be further oxidized to make surface acetate, leading to acetic acid on hydrolysis. Catalysts can be tailored for selectivity to either ethylene or acetic acid by modifying their elemental makeup and adjusting reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Catalysts such as Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 have been reported to give high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, some catalysts show deactivation over time, and the maintenance of activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the Mg(Ga)(Al)O support's role in preventing sintering and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, essential for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments include evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O series for dehydrogenation, showcasing its potential advantages. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of platinum supported on magnesium aluminate for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, particularly propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, platinum on alumina is more susceptible to metal sintering in oxidizing conditions. The text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt stands out among noble metals due to its superior CH bond activation and low CC cleavage activity, making it the only noble metal in commercial use. Historically, the Pacol process employed a Pt-based catalyst, while UOP's Oleflex process targeted butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxides, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides also showing promise.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The catalyst's enhanced performance is attributed to PtGa alloys, which dilute Pt ensembles and inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired products like methane. Ga addition also suppresses coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and higher stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. The catalyst's high activity, selectivity, and stability are advantageous for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's performance is strongly dependent on Ga content, with peak activity for both ethane and propane dehydrogenation at Ga/Pt = 1.45.4. Selectivity is a monotonic function of Ga/Pt, reaching nearly 100% at Ga/Pt = 5.4. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but beyond the peak, it contributes to alkene hydrogenation, reducing the net dehydrogenation rate. Hydrogen addition has little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. Interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts exhibit enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced catalyst deactivation, and decreased carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium's effect on the metallic phase structure, particularly after high-temperature reduction, leads to blocking and dilution effects on platinum sites, improving selectivity and stability. This suggests that combining metal oxide-based catalysts with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, with potential benefits in industrial applications for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst, prepared by dispersing Pt nanoparticles onto a calcined hydrotalcite-like support containing In and Al, shows high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. Upon reduction, bimetallic PtIn particles form, with an average diameter of 1 nm. Activity peaks at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, with nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising catalyst for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, which decreases most significantly as the bulk In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, demonstrating high activity for paraffin dehydrogenation to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for the selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. In the 1970s, UOP introduced continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, enabling noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for several years without shutdowns. This technology, known as the UOP OleflexTM process, facilitates the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, which cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene at temperatures of 300-500°C, with selectivity to ethylene around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins, with potential advantages in lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new noble metal-based catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, has been developed for alkane dehydrogenation, with high activity and selectivity attributed to the PtGa alloy formation. The support composition enhances stability against sintering and coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, such as ethylene, propylene, and n-butene, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent advancements include evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O series for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, showcasing high stability. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of Pt/MgAl2O4 in high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane, with trace sulfur suppressing hydrogenolysis and coke formation. However, it does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, nor does it discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum (Pt) is the primary noble metal catalyst due to its unique properties, specifically its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity for CC cleavage. Pt's commercial application began with the Pacol process in 1968, later evolving into the Oleflex process for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have also seen industrial use, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promising results in recent developments.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, exhibit high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane. The enhanced performance is attributed to PtGa alloys, which dilute Pt ensembles and inhibit product alkene adsorption, suppressing undesired products like methane. Ga addition suppresses coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and higher stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with little effect on alkene selectivity, which remains near 100%. The presence of Ga also suppresses coke formation, contributing to the catalyst's potential advantages in industrial applications for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium has a minimal impact on acidity but modifies the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, potentially benefiting industrial applications for light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The PtIn bimetallic alloy, with an average diameter of 1 nm, shows decreased carbon accumulation, especially at the optimal In/Pt ratio, where the catalyst maintains high activity over time. The location of carbon accumulation varies with the alkane undergoing dehydrogenation, affecting catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. In the 1970s, UOP introduced continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology for noble metal catalysts, enabling stable activity for several years without shutdowns. This technology, known as the UOP OleflexTM process, allows for the production of light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. However, the production of ethylene via catalytic dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts has not been extended to ethane due to the need for more severe operating conditions, which cause excessive coking or require costlier vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in the oxydehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. At temperatures of 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used. Ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium in the catalyst to form surface ethoxide, which can undergo beta-elimination to form ethylene. The surface ethoxide can be further oxidized to make surface acetate, leading to acetic acid on hydrolysis. Catalysts can be made selective for either ethylene or acetic acid by modifications in the elemental makeup and suitable adjustments of reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene with these catalysts is approximately 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, largely non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts are used, evolved primarily from investigations of methane oxidative coupling. These catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are largely absent due to their instability at high temperatures. Catalysts such as Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, vanadium oxide on barium carbonate, SrFeO3δClσ, and Ho2O3 with BaCl2 have been reported to give high selectivity to ethylene at high conversion of ethane. However, some catalysts show deactivation over time, and the maintenance of activity and selectivity over long periods is crucial for an economical process.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the support's composition, which enhances metal particle stability and reduces coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments include evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O series for improved dehydrogenation efficiency. The text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, platinum supported on magnesium aluminate has shown efficiency, particularly in the dehydrogenation of propane, isobutane, and isopentane at high temperatures over long cycles. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, regarding their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in this field.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxides, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are pivotal. Pt's superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low CC cleavage activity make it the sole noble metal in commercial use. Metal oxides, especially CrOx, have seen industrial application, with promising results from other oxides. The Pacol and Oleflex processes, utilizing Pt and metal oxides respectively, have been significant in the production of butadiene and propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Its effectiveness is attributed to PtGa alloys that inhibit product alkene adsorption and suppress undesired methane formation. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. Hydrogen addition to the feed boosts alkene formation by enhancing hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, with selectivity remaining near 100%. Coke formation is suppressed, and interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced deactivation, and carbon formation compared to pure Pt/Al2O3. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests metal oxide-based catalysts, when combined with noble metals, offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with optimal performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48. At this ratio, the catalyst achieves nearly 100% selectivity to alkene and significantly reduces coke deposition. The formation of a PtIn bimetallic alloy with an average diameter of 1 nm enhances stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The catalyst's activity and selectivity are strongly dependent on the In/Pt ratio, with maximum activity at 12% In content. Alloying Pt with In decreases carbon accumulation, crucial for maintaining activity over time. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon deposition, which is minimized by the PtIn alloy, particularly at the optimal In/Pt ratio.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for dehydrogenating paraffins to olefins. In the 1960s, Pt-based catalysts were developed for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins production. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, leading to the UOP OleflexTM process for producing light olefins, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxide catalysts containing vanadium are used, with selectivity to ethylene around 70% at 70% conversion of ethane. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxide catalysts produce ethylene as the C2 product, with some producing methane from cracking reactions. Recent developments in metal oxide-based catalysts have focused on improving selectivity and stability for the dehydrogenation of light paraffins to olefins. Pt catalysts have the potential advantage of high activity and selectivity for dehydrogenation, while metal oxide-based catalysts have the potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A comparative analysis of noble metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts for nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins reveals the effectiveness of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts. The presence of Ga in these catalysts forms PtGa alloys, enhancing their activity. The support composition, Mg(Ga)(Al)O, is crucial for stability against sintering and coke formation. Industrial applications include the production of light alkenes, essential for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments feature a series of Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalysts for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, showcasing high activity, selectivity, and stability. However, the literature lacks a detailed comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature discusses platinum on magnesium aluminate's efficiency for dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, notably propane, isobutane, and isopentane, in high-temperature, long-cycle processes. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or detail their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, noble metal-based catalysts, notably Pt, and metal oxides, exemplified by CrOx, are utilized. Pt stands out for its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and minimal CC cleavage activity, making it the sole noble metal in commercial use. The Pacol process, employing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst, was the first industrial alkane dehydrogenation technology in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, using Pt, was later developed for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxides, including CrOx and others like gallium and vanadium oxides, have shown promise in industrial applications.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. The PtGa alloy formation enhances performance by diluting Pt ensembles, inhibiting product adsorption, and suppressing coke formation, leading to lower deactivation and higher stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. The addition of hydrogen to the feed increases alkene formation due to enhanced hydrogen-assisted dehydrogenation, but beyond a peak, it contributes to alkene hydrogenation, reducing the net dehydrogenation rate. Interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and catalyst deactivation. The extent of deactivation is lower for ethane than propane dehydrogenation, despite higher coke deposition in the former case.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced catalyst deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly alters the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in terms of activity and stability, making them potentially more effective for industrial applications in producing light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, with maximum performance at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, achieving nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising candidate for industrial light olefin production. The PtIn bimetallic alloy, with an average diameter of 1 nm, shows decreased carbon accumulation, especially as the In/Pt ratio increases from 0 to 0.48. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, with graphitic carbon domains forming during dehydrogenation, dependent on the alkane composition. This catalyst's performance highlights the potential advantages of noble metal-based catalysts over metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, notably Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for paraffin-to-olefin conversion. Pt-based catalysts, developed in the 1960s, selectively dehydrogenate long-chain linear paraffins to mono-olefins with high activity, stability, and minimal cracking, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefin production for biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, allows noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, enabling the UOP OleflexTM process for light olefin production, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. As of late 2000, multiple propane and isobutane dehydrogenation units were in commercial operation with a combined capacity exceeding 3 million MTA. However, ethane dehydrogenation over Pt catalysts is limited due to the need for severe conditions that cause excessive coking or require costly vacuum operation. Metal oxide-based catalysts, including CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, are used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxides containing vanadium are employed, where ethane reacts with molybdenum or vanadium to form surface ethoxide, which undergoes beta-elimination to ethylene. Surface ethoxide can further oxidize to acetate, leading to acetic acid. Catalyst selectivity for ethylene or acetic acid can be adjusted by modifying elemental makeup and reaction conditions. Selectivity to ethylene is around 70% at 70% ethane conversion. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxides are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling studies. These catalysts primarily produce ethylene, with some producing methane from cracking. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Various metal oxide catalysts have been reported to achieve high ethylene selectivity at high ethane conversion. However, maintaining activity and selectivity over time is crucial for economical processes. Pt catalysts have been used in dehydrogenation since the mid-1960s, initially for long-chain linear olefins for detergents. CCR technology allows for stable activity without regeneration shutdowns. Alumina supports, with acidity controlled by alkali or alkaline earth metals, are used for high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins. Modified catalysts suppress coke formation and improve stability. Alumina maintains high platinum dispersion, crucial for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. The catalytic reaction rate is limited by intraparticle mass transfer, requiring an optimal pore structure. Pt catalysts are used for long-chain paraffin dehydrogenation under mild conditions, allowing long catalyst life without regeneration facilities. Light paraffin dehydrogenation requires higher temperatures for economic conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and frequent regeneration. Metal oxide-based catalysts have been used in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, showing high activity and selectivity. Recent developments focus on improving selectivity and stability for light paraffin dehydrogenation to olefins. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity, while metal oxides have potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the PtGa alloy formation and the support's composition, which enhances metal particle stability and reduces coke formation. This catalyst is industrially applied in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts or discuss their effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt/MgAl2O4 catalysts demonstrate high efficiency, particularly in dehydrogenating propane, isobutane, and isopentane at high temperatures over long cycles. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, focusing instead on sulfur's role in deactivation of Pt/MgAl2O4.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"},
{"DOC": "In nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, Pt is the primary noble metal catalyst due to its unique properties, making it the only one in commercial use. Metal oxide-based catalysts, notably CrOx, have industrial applications, with gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides showing promise. Pt's effectiveness in activating paraffinic CH bonds without cleaving CC bonds led to its use in the first industrial process, Pacol, in 1968. UOP's Oleflex process, using Pt, was later developed for butadiene and propylene production. Metal oxides, especially CrOx, have been used industrially, demonstrating promising results.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436_1"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity for ethene and propene formation from ethane and propane, respectively, in nonoxidative dehydrogenation. Its effectiveness is attributed to PtGa alloys, which inhibit product alkene adsorption and suppress undesired products like methane. Ga addition also reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. Recent developments focus on optimizing the Ga/Pt ratio for peak activity and selectivity. This catalyst offers potential advantages in industrial applications for light olefin production due to its high activity, selectivity, and stability. The performance is strongly dependent on Ga content, with peak activity at Ga/Pt = 1.45.4 and nearly 100% selectivity at Ga/Pt = 5.4. Hydrogen addition to the feed increases alkene formation but can lead to alkene hydrogenation beyond the peak activity. Interestingly, less coke is formed during propane dehydrogenation than ethane dehydrogenation, with no correlation between coke formation and catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.016"},
{"DOC": "In the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins, gallium-modified Pt/Al2O3 catalysts show enhanced selectivity to propylene, reduced catalyst deactivation, and carbon formation. Gallium slightly affects the acidity function but significantly modifies the metallic phase structure, improving performance in propane dehydrogenation. This suggests that combining metal oxides with noble metals can offer advantages in activity and stability for dehydrogenation processes, making them potentially more effective and stable for industrial applications in light olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(99)00058-7"},
{"DOC": "A novel Pt/Mg(In)(Al)O catalyst, featuring Pt nanoparticles dispersed on a hydrotalcite-like support with In and Al, shows high activity and selectivity for ethane and propane dehydrogenation. Upon reduction, PtIn bimetallic particles form, averaging 1 nm in diameter. Activity peaks at a bulk In/Pt ratio of 0.48, with nearly 100% selectivity to alkene. Alloying Pt with In significantly reduces coke deposition, enhancing stability and selectivity, making it a promising industrial catalyst for light olefin production. The PtIn alloy's composition affects the fraction of Pt atoms capable of adsorbing H2 and charge transfer, impacting activity. Catalyst deactivation is attributed to carbon accumulation, which decreases as the In/Pt ratio increases, particularly from 0 to 0.48. Graphitic carbon domains form during dehydrogenation, with location dependent on the alkane composition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.06.008"},
{"DOC": "Noble metal-based catalysts, particularly Platinum (Pt), have been pivotal in catalytic dehydrogenation since the 1940s, with high activity for paraffin-to-olefin conversion. Pt-based catalysts were developed in the 1960s for selective dehydrogenation of long-chain linear paraffins to internal mono-olefins, leading to the UOP PacolTM process for linear olefins in biodegradable detergents. By 1999, over 30 commercial Pt-catalyzed dehydrogenation units were operational for detergent alkylate production. Continuous catalyst regeneration (CCR) technology, introduced in the 1970s, enabled noble metal catalysts to maintain stable activity for years, facilitating the UOP OleflexTM process for light olefin production, particularly propylene and isobutylene, at high selectivities under superatmospheric pressures. Metal oxide-based catalysts, such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides, have been used in ethane oxydehydrogenation to ethylene. At 300-500°C, reducible metal oxides containing vanadium are employed, with ethane reacting to form surface ethoxide, which undergoes beta-elimination to ethylene. Selectivity to ethylene is around 70% at 70% conversion. At higher temperatures, above 600°C, non-reducible and reducible metal oxides are used, evolved from methane oxidative coupling studies. These catalysts primarily produce ethylene, with some producing methane from cracking. Oxygenated products other than carbon oxides are absent due to instability at high temperatures. Catalysts like Na2WO4-Mn/SiO2, lithium chloride on sulfated zirconia, SrBi3O4Cl3, and others have shown high ethylene selectivity at high ethane conversion. However, catalyst deactivation over time is a challenge, and maintaining activity and selectivity is crucial for economical processes. Pt catalysts have been used since the mid-1960s for light olefin dehydrogenation, initially for long-chain linear olefins in detergents. CCR technology in the 1970s allowed for stable activity without regeneration shutdowns. Alumina supports, with acidity controlled by alkali or alkaline earth metals, are used for high activity and selectivity to mono-olefins. Modified catalysts suppress coke formation and improve stability. Alumina's thermal stability, mechanical strength, and ability to maintain high platinum dispersion are key for high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. The catalytic reaction rate is limited by intraparticle mass transfer, requiring an optimal pore structure for performance. Pt catalysts are used for long-chain paraffin dehydrogenation under mild conditions for long life and productivity. Light paraffin dehydrogenation requires higher temperatures for economic conversions, leading to accelerated catalyst deactivation and frequent regeneration. Metal oxide-based catalysts have been used for light paraffin dehydrogenation to olefins, with recent developments focusing on improved selectivity and stability. Pt catalysts offer high activity and selectivity, while metal oxides have potential for lower cost and improved stability under high-temperature conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0926-860x(01)00816-x"},
{"DOC": "A new catalyst, Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O, demonstrates high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane and propane dehydrogenation, attributed to the formation of PtGa alloys. Its industrial application is in the production of light alkenes, crucial for commodity chemicals and polymers. Recent developments include evaluating Pt/Mg(Ga)(Al)O series for dehydrogenation, showcasing potential advantages. However, the literature lacks a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2010.06.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the efficiency of platinum on magnesium aluminate for high-temperature, long-cycle dehydrogenation of lower paraffins, particularly propane, isobutane, and isopentane. Trace sulfur in the feed suppresses hydrogenolysis and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. However, the text does not provide a direct comparison with metal oxide-based catalysts, nor does it discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, or potential advantages in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins.", "Doi": "10.1016/0021-9517(86)90312-x"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    