This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
Cite this:DOI: 10.1039/c5cs00108k
Recent advances in automotive catalysis for NOx
emission control by small-pore microporous
materials
A. M. Beale,ab F. Gao,c I. Lezcano-Gonzalez,ab C. H. F. Pedenc and J. Szanyic
The ever increasing demand to develop highly fuel eﬃcient engines coincides with the need to minimize
air pollution originating from the exhaust gases of internal combustion engines. Dramatically improved fuel
eﬃciency can be achieved at air-to-fuel ratios much higher than stoichiometric. In the presence of oxygen
in large excess, however, traditional three-way catalysts are unable to reduce NOx. Among the number of
lean-NOx reduction technologies, selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of NOx by NH3 over Cu- and Fe-ion
exchanged zeolite catalysts has been extensively studied over the past 30+ years. Despite the significant
advances in developing a viable practical zeolite-based catalyst for lean NOx reduction, the insuﬃcient
hydrothermal stabilities of the zeolite structures considered cast doubts about their real-world applicability.
During the past decade renewed interest in zeolite-based lean NOx reduction was spurred by the discovery
of the very high activity of Cu–SSZ-13 (and the isostructural Cu–SAPO-34) in the NH3-SCR of NOx. These
new, small-pore zeolite-based catalysts not only exhibited very high NOx conversion and N2 selectivity, but
also exhibited exceptionally high hydrothermal stability at high temperatures. In this review we summarize
the key discoveries of the past B5 years that led to the introduction of these catalysts into practical
applications. This review first briefly discusses the structure and preparation of the CHA structure-based
zeolite catalysts, and then summarizes the key learnings of the rather extensive (but not complete)
characterisation work. Then we summarize the key findings of reaction kinetic studies, and provide some
mechanistic details emerging from these investigations. At the end of the review we highlight some of the
issues that still need to be addressed in automotive exhaust control catalysis.
1. Introduction
The abatement of environmentally harmful compounds (e.g.,
hydrocarbons (HC), oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and sulfur (SOx),
and CO), emitted from mobile or stationary power sources, has
been a remarkable success story for the catalysis R&D community.1
In particular, for mobile (automotive exhaust emission control)
applications, the ‘‘three-way’’ catalyst that is the active component
of the ‘‘catalytic converter’’, a standard component on vehicles in
the US and Europe for over 30 years, has contributed to a remark-
able drop in emissions of CO, HC and NOx from gasoline-powered
vehicles. We now take for granted the dramatic improvements that
the introduction of the catalytic converter technology has made in
air quality and, correspondingly, human health.
Unfortunately, the ‘‘three-way’’ catalytic converter technology
is not suitable for application on so-called ‘‘lean-burn’’ engines
that operate at high air/fuel ratios, including diesel-powered
vehicle engines. Although these engine technologies are inher-
ently more fuel eﬃcient than ‘‘stoichiometric’’ gasoline power-
trains, their wide-spread application for vehicles has been
limited by the inability of the three-way catalyst to reduce NOx
emissions at high air/fuel ratios. As such, in the last 10–15 years
a significant R&D focus has been on this problem of ‘‘lean-NOx’’
emission control.2–8 Based on this recent work, significant
achievements have been realized with the very recent commer-
cialization of two new nano-materials-based catalytic emission
control applications for diesel-powered vehicles: the NOx storage/
reduction (NSR) catalyst and the selective catalytic reduction with
ammonia (NH3-SCR) using metal-exchanged zeolites. Because
these are such newly introduced technologies, many challenges
remain to improve performance, enhance stability, and lower
costs. Indeed, many of the practical concerns with these new
‘‘lean-NOx’’ catalyst technologies stem from a relatively poor
fundamental understanding of catalyst structure/activity and
reaction mechanisms.
a Department of Chemistry, University College London, 20 Gordon Street,
London WC1H 0AJ, UK
b UK Catalysis Hub, Research Complex at Harwell, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory,
Didcot, OX11 0FA, UK
c Institute for Integrated Catalysis, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland,
WA, USA. E-mail: janos.szanyi@pnnl.gov
Received 4th February 2015
DOI: 10.1039/c5cs00108k
www.rsc.org/csr
Chem Soc Rev
REVIEW ARTICLE
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
View Journal
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
In this review, we summarize the results of recent studies
of zeolite-based catalysts for the SCR of NOx using NH3 as a
reductant. First we will give an overview of the development
of zeolite-based SCR catalysts, then briefly discuss the most
important parameters of the CHA-based zeolite synthesis proto-
col, and provide key structural information of these materials. In
the following section we will summarize the key findings of the
extensive characterization work that have appeared over the past
B5 years on Cu– and Fe–SSZ-13 catalysts. This will be followed by
a section detailing the key findings of kinetic studies over these
materials and present some of the mechanistic proposals based
on both the structural characterization and detailed kinetic
measurements. Finally we present some of the future challenges
we are facing in the field of automotive exhaust control catalysis.
1.1.
Development of metal-exchanged zeolites for vehicle
applications
The development of SCR using metal-exchanged zeolite catalysts
for automotive applications is by no means an isolated event.
Prior to zeolite catalysts, a wide variety of other materials, e.g.,
supported noble metals, coinage metal oxides and salts, and early
transition metal oxides, have been examined.9–11 The identifi-
cation of ammonia as a particularly efficient reductant for NOx
removal even dates back to the 1950s.12 The most relevant and
useful prior knowledge comes from the development of oxide
supported vanadia SCR systems for stationary NOx removal
applications (e.g., in coal-fired power plants), initiated in Japan
in the early 1970s and adopted worldwide at present.10,11 Our
understanding of fundamental SCR chemistry on zeolite catalysts
A. M. Beale
Dr
Andrew
M.
Beale
studied
chemistry at Sussex University
and obtained his PhD in 2003
from the Royal
Institution
of
Great Britain/University College
London with Prof. G. Sankar
and C. Richard A. Catlow. In
2004 he moved to the department
of
Inorganic
Chemistry
and
Catalysis, Utrecht University in
the Netherlands first as a post-
doctoral fellow and subsequently
(2009) as an Assistant Professor
in the group of Prof. Bert M.
Weckhuysen. In 2013 he moved to the department of chemistry at
UCL as an EPSRC Early Career Fellow and Lecturer. His work
focuses on establishing structure–function relationships in catalytic
solids as a function of both time and space and is the author of over
100 publications.
F. Gao
Dr Feng Gao received his under-
graduate
degree
in
Chemical
Engineering
from
Tianjin
University, China, in 1994. He
obtained
a
PhD
degree
in
Physical Chemistry in 2004 from
the
University
of
Wisconsin-
Milwaukee under Prof. Wilfred
T. Tysoe. From 2007 to 2009, he
was a postdoc at Texas A&M
University under Prof. D. Wayne
Goodman. He spent 2 years as a
research
staﬀ
at
Washington
State University before joining
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) as a staﬀscientist
in
2011,
conducting
research
in
basic
and
environmental
heterogeneous catalysis. He is a coauthor of 80+ publications.
I. Lezcano-Gonzalez
Dr Ine
´s Lezcano-Gonzalez studied
Chemical
Engineering
at
the
University of Valencia and received
her PhD in chemistry from the
Institute of Chemical Technology
(ITQ) under the guidance of Dr
Teresa Blasco, in 2011 (Polytechnic
University of Valencia). After three
years of postdoctoral research
at Utrecht University with Prof.
Bert M. Weckhuysen, she joined
the department of chemistry at
University College London and
the UK Catalysis Hub, where she
is currently working as a postdoctoral research associate in the
group of Dr Andrew M. Beale. Her research interests lie in the field
of heterogeneous catalysis, mainly on the application of in situ and
operando spectroscopic techniques.
C. H. F. Peden
Dr Charles H. F. Peden completed
his
undergraduate
degree
in
Chemistry from California State
University, Chico, in 1978, and
then obtained his PhD in Physical
Chemistry from the University of
California,
Santa
Barbara
in
1983. After a 2-year post-doctoral
tenure with D. Wayne Goodman
at Sandia National Laboratories,
he joined the scientific staﬀat
Sandia.
He
moved
to
Pacific
Northwest
National
Laboratory
in 1992 and is now a Laboratory
Fellow and Associate Director of the Institute for Integrated Catalysis
at PNNL. Dr Peden has over 250 peer-reviewed publications on the
catalytic properties of metal and metal-oxide materials, including
their use for catalytic vehicle emission control.
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
also largely originates from studies on supported vanadia
catalysts.10 As a result of the considerable experience with
vanadia-based SCR catalysts in stationary applications, it has
been under consideration for vehicle applications for quite
some time and, in fact, this catalyst system has been commer-
cialized in Europe.13 Due to concerns in the U.S. about vanadia
wastes from production activities as well as issues with low
hydrothermal durability, low activity/selectivity outside its
optimal operational temperature window, and undesired activity
in catalyzing SO2 oxidation to SO3 of these catalysts, metal-
exchanged zeolites are now being more widely used for vehicle
NH3-SCR applications.
The discovery and development of the zeolite-based SCR cata-
lysts are relatively recent, having occurred over the last 25+ years.
In 1986, Iwamoto and coworkers published a milestone paper14
describing high and stable activity of Cu2+ exchanged ZSM-5 in NO
decomposition into N2 and O2. This was followed by a surge of
research interest in NO decomposition which, in fact, would be an
ideal reaction for NOx removal as it does not require a secondary
reductant.2 It was soon realized, however, that the eﬃciency of this
process was so low that practical application for catalytic NO
decomposition was not likely. In fact, Schneider and coworkers
have demonstrated on thermodynamic grounds that such a pro-
cess could not meet emission standards for lean-burn engines.15
Investigations of Cu–ZSM-5 as an SCR catalyst with hydrocarbon
or NH3 reductants began in the early 1990s, and interest in these
materials quickly heightened due to the comparable, and in certain
cases superior performance for ‘‘fresh’’ Cu–ZSM-5 as compared
to the commercialized vanadia–titania SCR catalysts.12,16–19 In
particular, the use of hydrocarbons as reductants (HC-SCR)
received special interest because hydrocarbons are readily
available in the exhaust from incomplete combustion of fuels.17
Unfortunately, it was soon realized that Cu–ZSM-5 deactivates
rapidly under hydrothermal conditions typically encountered
in practical vehicle exhaust environments.20,21
Due partly to the need for more durable zeolite-based catalysts,
but mostly due to the need for more eﬃcient hydrocarbon activation
in HC-SCR, Fe–ZSM-5 became the next research focus. The hydro-
thermal stabilities were, indeed, somewhat improved, especially for
ZSM-5 based catalysts formulated with high Fe loadings.22–27
However, the durability of these Fe–ZSM-5 materials was still
not satisfactory for practical vehicle applications. Furthermore,
it was becoming clear during this time that SCR with NH3 over
these zeolite-based catalysts provided significantly better per-
formance for NOx reduction than HC-SCR.28,29
Subsequently, Cu- and Fe-beta for NH3-SCR have been
extensively studied because they show better durability than
ZSM-5 based catalysts.30–35 Still, there were concerns that metal-
exchanged beta zeolites would not maintain their high activities
to meet the regulated durability requirements (100 000 miles or
more in the U.S. standards).36 Another practical concern with
these candidate SCR catalysts became apparent with testing in
real engine exhaust.36 Notably, some of the exhaust hydrocarbons
from the incompletely burned fuel appeared to act as catalyst
poisons in part because they strongly adsorb in zeolites. Periodic
high temperatures encountered on the vehicle can also lead to
the highly exothermic combustion of the adsorbed hydrocarbons
resulting in locally very high temperatures sufficient to degrade
the zeolite structure.
1.2.
Metal-exchanged CHA zeolites
It seems likely that the issues with unburned hydrocarbons in
large-pore beta zeolites may have motivated the exploration of
small-pore materials. Prior to the development of Cu-containing
CHA-type materials for SCR applications, H–SAPO-34 (i.e. a
silicoaluminophosphate material isostructural to SSZ-13 zeolite)
has been successfully used as a commercial methanol-to-olefin
catalyst.37,38 To our knowledge, however, the SSZ-13 zeolite has
never been widely used as an industrial catalyst. While both
materials show strong Brønsted acidity, experimental39,40 as well
as theoretical studies41 seem to suggest that H–SSZ-13 displays
stronger acidity. In any case, metal-exchanged CHA-type micro-
porous materials were developed simultaneously by BASF and
Johnson-Matthey Inc. in the mid- to late-2000s for lean-NOx NH3-
SCR in Diesel-powered vehicles.42–45 These CHA-based catalysts,
first commercialized for NOx emission control in 2010, are now
the most common choice for SCR of NOx with NH3 (provided by
urea solutions) in vehicle applications. CHA zeolites (structural
model is shown in Fig. 1) have been known since the 1950s,46
and viable synthesis procedures for SSZ-13 were invented by
Stacy Zones at Chevron in the mid-1980s.47 The very recent
reports of their improved performance for NH3-SCR relative to
metal-exchanged ZSM-5 and beta42,43,48 have sparked consider-
able interest in and debate about the fundamental materials
and chemical properties of these metal-exchanged CHA zeolites.
The remainder of this review will focus mainly on what has
been learned, primarily over the last five years, and what is
currently proposed about Cu–CHA zeolites with regard to their
structure and catalytic chemistry for NH3-SCR. The much less
studied Fe–CHA SCR catalysts will also be described, although
in less detail.
J. Szanyi
Dr Ja
´nos Szanyi received his under-
graduate
(1982)
and
Dr
Univ.
(1986) degrees from the University
of Szeged, Hungary, and his PhD
degree at Texas A&M University
from Prof. D. Wayne Goodman’s
group in 1993. After post-graduate
work with Prof. Jack H. Lunsford at
TAMU, and with Dr Mark T. Paﬀett
at Los Alamos National Laboratory,
he joined the technical staﬀat PPG
Industries in Pittsburgh, PA in
1996. Since 2001 Dr Szanyi has
been conducting research at the
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in the field of environmental
catalysis focusing on understanding structure–reactivity relationships
and reaction mechanisms over model and practical heterogeneous
catalysts. He has co-authored over 130 peer-reviewed publications.
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
2. Cu(Fe)–CHA synthesis
SSZ-13 is readily synthesized hydrothermally. Detailed synthesis
recipes based on the original Zones patent47 can be found in the
recent literature,49–51 in which, N,N,N-trimethyl-1-adamant-
ammonium iodide/hydroxide has been chosen as a structure
directing agent (SDA). The hydroxide form is commercially
available from Sachem, Inc. In principle, the chabasite struc-
ture can be constructed with Si/Al ratios from 1 to infinity. By
varying Si/Al ratios of the precursor, one can readily synthesize
SSZ-13 with various Si/Al ratios. It is important to note that the
Si/Al ratio is an important criterion for determining kinetics,
stability and the catalyst operating window for Cu–SSZ-13 cata-
lysts. To accommodate sufficient amounts of Cu2+ ions and to
ensure sufficient hydrothermal stability, the current generation
of a commercial Cu–SSZ-13 catalyst has a Si/Al ratio of B15.52
Cu–SSZ-13 is readily generated via a traditional aqueous solution
ion-exchange method that has also been described in detail in
recent publications.48–51,53 SAPO-34 is also synthesized hydro-
thermally using a vast number of organic and inorganic Al and
Si sources and SDAs (alkylamines and morpholine). Previous
studies have discovered the following important parameters that
affect the properties of synthesized SAPO-34: (1) the SDA chosen;
(2) the Al and Si sources; (3) the molar ratios of Si/Al/P/SDA
of the gel; (4) gel aging time/temperature; (5) reaction time/
temperature.54–59 Among these, SDAs play decisive roles in
affecting crystallite size, Si distribution and, therefore, frame-
work charge density, while the choice of inorganic Al and Si
sources and maintaining continuous stirring during synthesis are
important to form products with high crystallinity. The presence
of three tetrahedral elements (instead of two for zeolites) and the
possible existence of silica islands within SAPO-34 make this
material intrinsically more complex than SSZ-13. Cu–SAPO-34 can
also be generated via a traditional solution ion-exchange method.
Note that although calcined SAPO-34 is in the H-form, to facilitate
Cu2+ ion incorporation, it is still necessary to exchange it into the
NH4-form.59–61 Furthermore, the generation of Cu–SAPO-34 from
this method is not trivial due to the moisture sensitivity of this
material at temperatures lower than 100 1C.59,62–64 Fe–CHA can
be prepared similarly using NH4-CHA and solution of a Fe(II) salt;
however, care must be taken to avoid Fe2+ oxidation to Fe3+ which
leads to bulky Fe-complexes (i.e. iron oxyhydroxides) during ion
exchange. This was achieved by N2 protection during ion exchange,
which is discussed in more details elsewhere.65
A few alternative Cu–CHA synthesis methods were developed
in the past few years. Ren et al. discovered that the Cu2+–
tetraethylenepentamine complex (Cu–TEPA), owing to its stabi-
lity, proper size and charge-balancing nature, can be used as a
SDA for ‘‘one-pot’’ Cu–SSZ-13 synthesis.66 There is, unfortunately,
a clear drawback when Cu–TEPA is used alone as the SDA: in
the final product, the Cu content can readily be too excessive,
because multiple SDA molecules are required to generate one
CHA unit cell. As will be shown below, excessive Cu loading is
detrimental to the hydrothermal stability of Cu–CHA. To lower
the Cu content, a ‘‘reverse’’ ion-exchange step is required to
remove some of the Cu2+ ions.67 It is important to note that this
approach avoids the expensive traditional SDAs for SSZ-13
synthesis. Cu–TEPA was also found to be an efficient SDA for
one-pot Cu–SAPO-34 synthesis. In this case, it can be used as a
co-SDA, together with other low cost SDAs, to allow Cu loadings
to be readily controlled.68,69 Another method successfully used
to synthesize Cu–CHA is the so-called solid-state ion exchange
(SSIE) method. For example, heating up a CuO and SSZ-13/
SAPO-34 mixture to an elevated temperature (700 1C and above)
allows for the formation of extra-framework Cu2+ according to
the following reactions:70,71
2H+ + CuO = Cu2+ + H2O
(1)
H+ + CuO = [Cu(OH)]+
(2)
This method is rather straightforward and allows facile Cu
loading control. However, incomplete CuO reaction and partial
damage of the zeolites at such high temperatures are the draw-
backs. Very recently, Shwan et al. discovered that NH3 and/or a
standard NH3-SCR feed allow SSIE at much lower temperatures
(250 1C).72 The mobility of Cu at low temperatures has been
proposed to be related to the formation of [CuI(NH3)x]+ (x Z 2)
complexes.
3. Characterisation of Cu–CHA
3.1.
X-ray techniques
X-rays have a long standing history in the characterisation of
heterogeneous catalysts by their virtue of being highly penetra-
tive thereby allowing sample interrogation under appropriate
conditions relevant to heterogeneous catalysis (etc. correct gas
composition, temperature and more recently pressure).73 The
principle techniques that have been used to characterize ion-
exchanged CHA catalysts to date are X-ray diﬀraction and X-ray
absorption spectroscopy at the K-edges which for Cu and Fe are
Fig. 1
Structural model and possible cation locations in the CHA framework.
Adapted with permission from (F. Gao, et al., Top. Catal., 2013, 56, 1441).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
found at 8977 and 7120 eV, respectively, and in many cases
during the SCR reaction (defined as being under operando
conditions when catalytic activity is verified using a residual gas
analyser i.e. a mass spectrometer). Much less studied (in general)
are the L-edges for these elements which are too low in energy to
allow for facile in situ interrogation.
As with all K-edge spectroscopy, it is possible to obtain
detailed insight into the local environment of Cu in terms of
both the coordination (number and to some extent ligand-type)
and oxidation state which for Cu is dominated by 0, +1 and +2.
The tendency for the 4s ground state to remain unoccupied
often results in XANES spectra with multiple resonances. For
the investigation of Cu–CHA materials X-ray techniques have
been primarily employed to identify the nature and type of
Cu-containing species during all stages of the catalyst lifetime
i.e. from characterising the material before, during and after
the reaction.
3.1.1.
XANES. It is known that after calcination and expo-
sure to the atmosphere Cu–CHA materials contain [Cu(H2O)6]2+
species that are Jahn–Teller distorted. Evidence for the presence
of this species can be seen in a typical Cu K-edge XANES by virtue
of a weak pre-edge feature at around 8977 eV due to a 1s–3d
(2T2g) transition which, since Dl 4 1, is dipole forbidden but
quadrupole allowed; the transition is especially weak since it is
also forbidden on symmetry grounds by virtue of the Cu coordi-
nation possessing a centre of inversion (either Oh or else if the
Jahn–Teller distortion is very strong D4h) as well as a reduced
transition probability by virtue of the d9 electronic configuration.
In contrast, a weak pre-edge peak results in a strong intensity of
the rising absorption edge since, importantly, this transition
between the 1s and the unoccupied 4p is both dipole and parity
(symmetry) allowed; around and even beyond this point the
spectral features become dominated by multiple scattering
around the absorber as a consequence of the low mean free
path of the excited electron; the more neighbours around the
absorber the more intense the multiple scattering and the
sharper the features. Interestingly then the intensity of the rising
absorption edge (in conjunction with the change in the pre-edge
peak intensity) is a quick indicator of the coordination around
Cu species in zeolites having been shown to reduce in intensity as
the coordination number decreases, particularly the formation of
‘undercoordinated’ Cu species.74 Heating of Cu–CHA leads to
progressive dehydration of Cu which results in an increase in the
intensity of the pre-edge peak and a simultaneous decrease of
the white line, both changes characteristic of a reduction in the
coordination number as the dehydrated Cu2+ ions adopt specific
positions in the framework with a lower symmetry. An illustration
of the changes in the XANES data as this process occurs is given
in Fig. 2 where, in addition to the changes in the pre-edge peak
and white line, a newly appearing pre-edge shoulder assigned
to 1s/4p transitions in the 8985–8990 eV range and the Cu2+
fingerprint peak at ca. 8977.5 eV which is also consistent with a
less symmetric Cu coordination geometry.51,75,76
XANES has also been used to detect the presence of Cu
oxides (CuxOy) – notably Bates et al. demonstrated the presence
of these additional species by virtue of a pre-edge feature at
8987 eV within samples whereby the Cu/Altot atomic ratio 4 0.2;
importantly for XANES data, corresponding evidence for a second-
ary species could also be found in the form of a reduced white line
intensity. At low concentrations this can be more easily observed
when examining 1st derivative XANES spectra.77
XANES is also sensitive to a change in the ligand type around
the absorber; for example, a change from all O ligands to N
ligands in [Cu(NH3)4]2+ results in a spectrum containing a dip
in white line intensity with two features appearing at 8994 eV
and 8998 eV respectively.78 These features have even been
observed under pre-SCR conditions and where they have also
been proposed as evidence for NH3 adsorption on the Cu site at
low temperatures during standard SCR.51 The pre-edge position of
Cu+ was also shown to be sensitive to its coordination environ-
ment. The pre-edge energy of Cu+ with adsorbed CO shifted to
lower energy by about 1.5 eV in comparison to the adsorbate-free
Cu+ ion.75
A second notable pre-edge feature pertinent to the under-
standing of Cu behaviour under SCR conditions is the observa-
tion of a feature at B8982 eV and is thought to be due to a
transition from a 1s to the doubly degenerate 4pxy orbitals in
two-coordinate Cu+ systems. This feature is very evident in the
data reported by Deka et al. in Cu–SSZ-13 samples prepared via
a CVD method which resulted in the formation of significant
amounts of CuAlO2 and consequently large amounts of unwanted
N2O in the NH3-SCR reaction of NO.79 Significant amounts of
Cu+ were also observed in the study reported by Kispersky et al.
who studied Cu–SSZ-13 and Cu–ZSM-5 under standard SCR
conditions and concluded from a linear combination fitting of
reference spectra that the greater extent of Cu reduction seen in
Fig. 2
Eﬀect of temperature on the XAS data collected during calcination
of Cu–SSZ-13 in O2/He. In (a) are shown the Cu K-edge XANES data and in
(b) the associated Fourier transform. The inset in (a) contains the back-
ground subtracted pre-edge peak. The changes observed are consistent
with a gradual dehydration of the Cu2+ ion and its location in close proximity
to the zeolite framework. Adapted with permission from (E. Borfecchia,
et al., Chem. Sci., 2015, 6, 548–563).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Cu–ZSM-5 (65% Cu+ vs. 15% Cu+ in Cu–SSZ-13) could explain its
greater overall deNOx activity at 200 1C.52,80 A similar follow-up
study reported by Bates et al., this time examining the impact of
Si:Al on the nature of the Cu active sites, also observed a similar
general redox trend with lower Si : Al ratios leading to a greater
extent of Cu+ formation at 180 1C using a similar gas composition
(see Fig. 3). From these studies as well as those by Deka et al. and
Borfecchia et al. it appears that the extent of reduction shows a
strong temperature dependency and that heating Cu–SSZ-13
under standard SCR reaction conditions above 200 1C and below
300 1C, a region of maximum NO conversion, only Cu2+ species
have thus far been observed. Very few studies have moved beyond
300 1C since above this temperature Cu–CHA samples tend to
burn NH3 resulting in reduced NO consumption.
For the most part XANES has very much been used as a
fingerprint technique, however with the advent of photon
in-photon out techniques such as high resolution fluorescence
detection (HERFD) or else valence-to-core (V2C) X-ray emission
spectroscopy it is now possible to resolve many more of the
features that contribute to a XANES spectrum, thereby enabling
more detailed structural insight (i.e. information concerning
the local environment around an absorber).81 However in order
to fully appreciate this resolution it is often necessary to employ
Density functional theory (DFT) to produce reliable energy-
minimised structural models from which a spectral simulation
can be attempted. This combination has the potential then to
resolve subtle diﬀerences in the spectra such as that might
be expected if there was a change in the ligand type from
Cu–O(framework) to Cu–OH and ultimately to tackle a mixture of
Cu species in different coordination and oxidation states; as
in the work of Borfecchia et al. for example where both Cu+
and Cu2+ were observed to occupy both the 6 ring (6R) and the
8 rings (8R) although the amounts of each species present in
each position differed.76 X-ray emission spectroscopy in combi-
nation with EXAFS (and IR) has been used to propose that after
calcination in O2/He that Cu2+ located on the 8R is actually a
[Cu(OH)]+ species.76
3.1.2.
EXAFS. Analysis of the EXAFS data from Cu is normally
dominated by the first shell, near neighbor (NN) contributions
although the preference for site occupancy in one or two
positions means that unlike Cu–ZSM-5 or beta, a more detailed
(multiple shell) structure analysis can be performed; hence in
the work reported by Korhonen et al. it was possible to identify
the close location of the Cu ions in the proximity of the CHA
framework immediately after calcination.7,82 Of particular inter-
est is the observation of an ‘undercoordinated’ (3 coordinate)
Cu2+ species in calcined samples as a result of the the tendency of
Cu species to locate in the corners of the 6R that makes up the
double 6 ring (D6R) that links the large cages in the zeolite
structure (see Fig. 1). Importantly this reduction in site symmetry
is also confirmed by XANES and also by examination of the
Debye–Waller factor which also suggests that the Cu species sites
exhibit little static or thermal disorder and are therefore very
much ensconced into the 6R. Evidence for a fourth coordinating
ligand is difficult to verify since the ligand would typically be
some B2.7 Å for the Cu centre across the 6R which also coincides
with the contributions from the zeolite framework. It should also
be noted that there remains the possibility that Cu ions might
simultaneously reside in both 6Rs that make up the D6R and that
this could be one conceivable origin of the CuxOy clusters/dimeric
species recently reported to be also present in addition to the
single Cu ions. More recently Borfecchia et al. proposed that after
calcination and cooling to room temperature in O2/He a similar
3 coordinate Cu2+ species is observed although this time located
in the 8R of the zeolite cage with two Cu–O(cage) linkages and a
Cu–OH ligand.
Hydrated Cu2+ species initially present as [Cu(H2O)6]2+ in
calcined and air-exposed Cu/CHA samples are Jahn–Teller dis-
torted. If the distortion is strongly tetragonal it becomes very
difficult to determine the presence of axial coordination since
these distances can be very long and are likely masked by a
combination of the zeolite framework and at certain distances,
their scattering contribution is often anti-phasic to that of the
equatorial ligands.83 As such, for the most part, EXAFS analysis
of the principle component in the Fourier transform is con-
fined to yielding Cu-NN information on the equatorial ligands
which is marginally sensitive to distinguishing between Cu2+–O
and the longer Cu2+–N coordination.84
Reduction of Cu2+ species to Cu+ appears diﬃcult to detect
unambiguously with EXAFS, particularly if only partial reduction
occurs. Nominally a good indicator for a reduction with the
retention of neighbour type is a lengthening of the Cu-NN
distance – however in the case of Cu+ the filled 3d10 electronic
configuration means that Cu+ compounds are often two
coordinate and linear resulting in a reduction in both Cu
coordination and bond length.52 XANES then appears to be
much more sensitive to the formation of reduced Cu species
although XANES data are collected immediately before the
Fig. 3
XANES spectra of Cu–SSZ-13 samples with two different Si : Al
ratios measured in situ during standard SCR (320 ppm NO, 320 ppm NH3,
10% O2, 8% CO2, 6% H2O and balance He) at 180 1C. For comparison two
reference spectra are also shown which serve to illustrate that Cu ions become
partially reduced during the reaction. Adapted with permission from (S. A. Bates,
et al., J. Catal., 2014, 312, 87–97).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
EXAFS (depending on the acquisition mode which if in Quick
EXAFS one can consider that the data are essentially simulta-
neous) one can verify the results of the former against the latter
and perform a comparative linear combination analysis of the
XANES/Vegard analysis of the EXAFS to estimate the proportion
of Cu species present.52,85
3.1.3.
X-ray diﬀraction
3.1.3.1. In situ. The advantage with diﬀraction techniques is
that they oﬀer mean ‘atomic’ resolution of structures through
reciprocal space. The disadvantage when studying Cu loaded
systems is that the low-loading of Cu (B2 wt%) typical of the most
catalytically interesting Cu–CHA materials makes it challenging to
unambiguously assign electron density to certain species, particu-
larly when studied under reaction conditions. This has a particular
importance for ion-exchanged zeolite systems such as SSZ-13, in
that the cationic species tend to significantly populate only at a
couple of sites in the micropore volume as shown in Fig. 4,
although, it has been remarked that the number of potential
cationic positions in SSZ-13 is much greater than this. The extent
of occupation of these sites by Cu ions however depends on the
temperature of the system and the degree of hydration of the
cationic species (as well as likely the oxidation state). For example
it was first shown by Fickel and Lobo that the occupancy of Cu2+
species in the plane of the 6R increases with calcination (in air)
temperature such that on reaching a maximum of 450 1C all Cu
species can be accounted for in this position.86 As has been shown,
however, this position is an average of Cu positions which can be
considered to occupy 3 ‘corners’ of the 6R.82 Similar behaviour was
observed by Deka et al. under standard SCR conditions in which
with increasing operational temperature Cu was seen to gradually
migrate into the plane of the 6R and which coincided with
maximum conversion of NO.51 A recent study reported by
Andersen et al. using maximum entropy methods on fully
dehydrated Cu–SSZ-13 at room temperature was able to observe
the location of a Cu species in the 8R (as well as in the 6R)
which the authors, in combination with DFT, suggested could
be the [Cu2+(OH)]+ complex proposed/observed in the recent
combined spectroscopy/DFT studies.76,87
3.1.3.2. Ex situ. Although, this technique is used primarily
for phase identification it is also clear that there are some
notable diﬀerences/characteristics in the nature of the SSZ-13
sample which appear to correlate with activity. For example,
multiple exchanges and calcination procedures tend to lead to a
sharpening of the Bragg peaks and therefore improved crystal-
linity and to better activity.88 Powder XRD has also been used to
illustrate that CHA contains, almost without exception, inter-
growths of AEI although the significance of this on catalytic
activity has yet to be conclusively explored for deNOx although
there is potential scope here judging by some recent material in
the patent literature.89–91 XRD has also been useful to confirm
deactivation of the CHA catalysts either through partial loss of
crystallinity through poisoning or else via that long exposure to
high temperatures (B800 1C) and 10% (vol) water vapour content
(hydrothermal aging) leading to a complete loss of the micro-
porous structure.77,92
3.2.
Optical spectroscopies
3.2.1.
UV-Vis. The advantage that UV-Vis spectroscopy has
over X-ray techniques is its ability to interrogate samples contain-
ing many diﬀerent metal species (i.e. zeolites) and when using
fiber optic technology up to working temperatures of 700 1C.93
The technique has been used principally to characterize Cu–CHA
materials during dehydration and in one instance during SCR.
[Cu(H2O)6]2+ in calcined and air-exposed Cu–CHA that gives rise
to its pale-blue colour is characterised by a broad and asymmetric
absorption in the UV-Vis spectrum around 12 000 cm1 in the
visible part of the spectrum and is due to a 2Eg and 2T2g
transition; the asymmetry arising due to the Jahn–Teller dis-
tortion can sometimes be resolved into three sub-components
at B12 400, 11 500 and 10 700 cm1 which likely correspond to
transitions originating from d(xz), d(yz) - d(x2  y2), d(xy) -
d(x2  y2) and d(z2) - d(x2  y2). Substitution of O-based
ligands for N-based ligands which have stronger ligand field
strength results in a shift in the absorption to a higher wave-
number.84 In addition to d–d transitions, an intense absorption
band centered at around 48000 cm1 due to ligand-to-metal
charge transfer (LMCT) transition is observed.94
Upon dehydration, the sample colour changes from pale
blue to an intense dark blue which is manifested in the UV-Vis
spectrum as a strong, blue-shifted absorption in the visible part of
the spectrum, consistent with a drop in symmetry/coordination
(becoming less Laporte forbidden) around the Cu2+ environment.
Conversely there is a clear red-shift of the LMCT band consistent
with a change in the ligand type from ionic Cu–(OH2) in
[Cu(H2O)6]2+
to
covalent
Cu–O(framework).
Interestingly
the
UV-Vis data contained additional resonances at 29 000 and
19 700 cm1 which have been proposed to be due to the pre-
sence of either planar or bis(m-Z2:Z2 peroxo) dicopper species
([Cu2(m-Z2:Z2-O2)]2+) – see Fig. 5. No bis(m-oxo)dicopper species,
which are known to be readily present in Cu–ZSM-5 and which
have been shown active for NO decomposition, have been detected
in Cu–CHA samples to date. However, ‘bulk-like’ CuO species
have been detected at high Cu loadings brought about by
multiple ion exchange or low Si:Al which tend to be observed
at around 35 000–40 000 cm1.77,94 Interestingly it may be that
these species are the same CuxOy species observed for SSZ-13
Fig. 4
DFT calculations of the 6R with two Al atoms (yellow) located
diagonally and a Cu2+ cation in the centre (left); the 6R with two Al atoms
sitting as next-nearest-neighbours and a Cu2+ cation slightly away from
the centre (middle); and the 8R with a single Al atom and a [Cu2+(OH)]+
complex. Adapted with permission from (C. W. Andersen, et al., IUCrJ,
2014, 1, 382–386).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
catalysts possessing high NOx oxidation activity, often consid-
ered to be the rate determining step in deNOx SCR processes.95
3.2.2.
IR spectroscopy. Due to its wide applicability and
availability, IR spectroscopy is a commonly used method for
zeolite characterisation. It provides detailed structural informa-
tion of the zeolite framework vibrations, cation vibrations, extra-
framework species and hydroxyl groups, and can be applied
under either in situ or in operando conditions. Furthermore, IR
spectroscopy of adsorbed probe molecules, such as NO, CO, NH3
or pyridine, can be employed to characterise adsorption sites in
zeolites. Upon adsorption, the vibrational spectra of probe mole-
cules change, providing information on surface sites. Nowadays,
a variety of IR techniques, such as transmission–absorption,
attenuation total reflection, diffuse reflectance or photoacoustic
spectroscopy, are available. Nevertheless, due to their relative
simplicity and wide applicability, transmission and diffuse reflec-
tance spectroscopies are frequently used in zeolite characterisa-
tion and catalysis.
3.2.2.1. IR spectroscopy of adsorbed CO. CO is a widely used
probe molecule for IR spectroscopic studies of zeolites, espe-
cially because of its weak basicity, small molecular diameter
and the high sensitivity of the C–O stretching frequency to the
environment. It is well established that the carbonyl stretching
mode responds to coordination onto Lewis metal sites leading
to frequency shifts. Moreover, the C–O stretch is also sensitive
to H-bonding to hydroxyl groups, so it can be employed to
investigate zeolite Brønsted acidity. Regarding the characterisa-
tion of Cu-containing zeolites, CO is commonly used to probe
the oxidation state of Cu ions; i.e. whereas Cu+ ions are able to
form carbonyl complexes, Cu2+(CO) species are very unstable
and are difficult to detect. Recent reviews regarding the use of
CO as a probe molecule can be found elsewhere.96–98
IR spectroscopy of adsorbed CO has been used to determine
the nature of the Cu ions present in Cu–SSZ-13. Characterisation
of zeolite samples with different ion exchange levels showed the
appearance of two vibrational features of CO adsorbed on Cu+
(2155 and 2135 cm1), suggesting the presence of two different
cationic positions for Cu+ ions.99 The samples were annealed in
a vacuum at 400 1C for 2 h, so CO was used to probe the Cu+
species formed during the activation treatment, wherein auto-
reduction of Cu2+ ions occurs.99 These results were further
confirmed by studies on Cu–SSZ-13 samples subjected to differ-
ent pre-treatments, and thus with different populations of Cu2+
and Cu+ ions.100,101
Szanyi et al. used CO adsorption to characterise Cu–SSZ-13
zeolites annealed in a vacuum, oxidised or else reduced with
CO and then annealed in a vacuum, though almost no differ-
ences were observed in the spectra recorded after the different
pre-treatments.100 As seen in Fig. 6, at low CO coverage, the
spectra recorded for the reduced sample exhibited the features
characteristic of CO adsorbed on Cu+ ions (2154 and 2135 cm1),
while increasing CO coverage resulted in the formation of
dicarbonyl species (2178 cm1 and increase and red-shift of
the band at 2154 cm1). Moreover, a low intensity feature was
also observed in the reduced sample at 2220 cm1, assigned to
Cu2+–CO species. Note, however, that both dicarbonyl and
Cu2+–CO species were only formed in the presence of excess
of gas-phase CO, and their stabilities were very low. From the
results obtained, it was proposed that the stretching vibration
of CO adsorbed on Cu+ appearing at 2154 cm1 corresponds to
Cu sites located in the zeolite cavities, whereas the stretching
vibration at 2135 cm1 was proposed to be characteristic of Cu+
sites located in constrained environments, such as the 6Rs.100
These results were further supported by DFT-based calculations
of vibrational frequencies.102
Giordanino et al. employed FT-IR transmission spectroscopy
of adsorbed CO to characterise a Cu–SSZ-13 zeolite pre-activated
either in O2 flow or in vacuum.101 From the results obtained the
authors observed the presence of several Cu species, including
isolated Cu+ ions able to form mono-, di- and tricarbonyl
species, and monovalent Cu+ and [Cu2+(OH)]+ species upon
O2 activation. As also seen by some of us,100 at low CO coverage,
monocarbonyl Cu+(CO) complexes were first formed, though
different intensities were obtained for this feature depending
Fig. 5
Comparison of UV-Vis-NIR spectra between Cu–SSZ-13/Cu–ZSM-
5/Cu–beta in the hydrated (black line) and dehydrated state. Markers repre-
sent the signals arising from isolated Cu2+ ions (.), [Cu–O–Cu]2+ dimers (K)
and [Cu2(m-Z2:Z2-O2)]2+ (*) Photographs of the O2 activated forms have also
been included.
Fig. 6
A series of selected IR spectra collected from reduced (with CO at
573 K) and annealed (at 773 K) Cu–SSZ-13 at 300 K sample temperature as
a function of the amount of CO introduced into the IR cell. Adapted with
permission from (J. Szanyi, et al., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2013, 15(7), 2368).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
on the activation treatment. To explain this discrepancy, the
authors argued that only the strongest adsorption processes
could be monitored in the experiments performed by Szanyi
et al.,100 as CO adsorption was performed at RT, so no differ-
ences could be observed on the spectra collected on annealed,
oxidised or reduced samples. Increased CO coverage led to the
formation of dicarbonyl Cu+(CO)2 complexes, together with the
evolution of a broad band at around 2220–2235 cm1, assigned
to Al3+  CO adducts, resulting from the presence of extraframe-
work Al species. At low to medium CO coverages, monocarbonyl
complexes located in constrained environments, such as in 6Rs,
were observed (2135 cm1), while at higher CO coverage,
tricarbonyl complexes and OH  CO adducts on the Brønsted
acid sites and the external silanol groups were formed. Inter-
estingly, at the highest CO coverage a sharp peak at 2207 cm1
emerged on the O2 activated sample, attributed to Cu–OH  CO
adducts, resulting from the presence of [Cu2+(OH)]+ complexes
(vide infra).101
IR spectroscopy of adsorbed CO has also been used to char-
acterize Fe species in Fe–SSZ-13.103 The interaction of CO is weak
with Fe ions in Fe–SSZ-13 zeolites, therefore IR spectroscopy can
only be performed at low sample temperatures to study CO
adsorption. IR spectra collected at 100 K sample temperature
over Fe–ZSM-5 exhibited a vibrational feature of adsorbed CO
on Fe2+ ions only, while no adsorbed CO signals on Fe3+ sites
were observed.104 Gao et al. investigated the adsorption of CO on
both fresh and hydrothermally aged (HTA) Fe–SSZ-13 zeolites at
150 K sample temperatures.103 The fresh sample (calcined at
773 K for 2 h in a vacuum) exhibited a number of IR bands
characteristic of carbonyl species bound to Fe2+ (2194 cm1), Al3+-
bound CO (2220 cm1) and zeolitic OH-bound CO (2175 cm1).
The thermal stabilities of these adsorbed CO were very low, the
highest being the Fe2+-adsorbed CO. After hydrothermal aging
(1073 K for 16 h) the Fe–SSZ-13 sample displayed two new IR
features upon CO exposure at 150 K at 2153 and 2138 cm1, in
addition to those observed for the fresh samples. The weak
absorption feature at 2153 cm1 may be assigned to CO adsorbed
onto finely dispersed FeOx clusters formed during the high
temperature hydrothermal aging, while the 2138 cm1 band is
attributed to CO adsorbed onto Fe2+ ions in the vicinity of some
extraframework cations, most probably Al3+.103
3.2.2.2. IR spectroscopy of adsorbed N2. N2 has been increas-
ingly used as a probe molecule because it is completely unreac-
tive and highly specific as a very weak base. Even though N2 is
infrared inactive, a decrease in the symmetry of the molecule
can lead to infrared activity of the N–N stretching mode when
the molecule is within an anisotropic environment.105 IR
spectroscopy of adsorbed N2 has been employed by Giordanino
et al. to gain further insight into the Cu species formed upon
vacuum activation; whereas N2 molecules interact with Cu+ ions
forming Cu+(N2) adducts, the interaction with Cu2+ ions is too
weak.101 In agreement with results obtained using CO as a probe,
the spectra displayed two different components upon N2 adsorp-
tion, at 2293 and 2300 cm1, attributed to Cu+(N2) complexes
located in different environments. Additionally, the interaction
of N2 with either the Brønsted sites or extra-framework Al species
was also investigated, confirming the presence of a small amount
of EFAl species.101
3.2.2.3. IR spectroscopy of adsorbed NO. IR spectroscopy of
adsorbed NO is a commonly used method for zeolite character-
isation, which provides information about Lewis acidity and
redox properties of cationic sites. The coordination of NO to a
cationic site leads to the formation of surface nitrosyl species,
which absorb in a wide spectral range. As with CO, NO is
commonly used as a probe molecule to investigate the oxida-
tion state and the location of Cu species on zeolites, since it is
able to coordinate with both Cu+ and Cu2+ ions; the use of NO
as an IR probe has been recently reviewed.96–98 Kwak et al.
performed NO adsorption measurements on Cu–SSZ-13 zeolites
with different ion exchange levels.99 Before the measurement,
the zeolite samples were annealed in vacuum at 400 1C for 2 h,
so a part of the Cu2+ species were autoreduced to Cu+ ions.
Accordingly, vibrational features corresponding to NO molecules
adsorbed on both Cu2+ (1948 and 1914 cm1) and Cu+ (1810 and
1780 cm1) sites were seen in the spectra. Since more than one
distinctive band was observed on each site (in line with the
results obtained using CO), it was proposed that in Cu–SSZ-13,
both Cu2+ and Cu+ occupy two different cationic positions; i.e.
inside the 6R and in the large zeolite cages.99 Subsequent studies
further confirmed the findings reported above.100 Transmission
FT-IR investigations of Cu–SSZ-13 samples subjected to different
pre-treatments (i.e. annealed in vacuum, oxidised or else reduced
with CO or H2 and then annealed in vacuum) revealed that NO
adsorbed on both Cu+ and Cu2+ sites occupies positions in either
the 6R and 8R, and that the nN–O peak position was sensitive to
the location of the Cu ion in the CHA structure.100 One of the key
findings of this study was the identification of the origin of the
IR absorption feature observed at B2165 cm1 on both the
annealed and oxidized sample. Measurements with 15NO clearly
showed that this feature belongs to an N–O stretching vibration
whilst the peak position suggested that it corresponds to posi-
tively charged species, most probably to NO+. The evolution of
the intensity of this band always paralleled that of the Cu+-bound
NO vibration on oxidized and annealed Cu–SSZ-13 samples,
indicating that NO+ species were produced by the reduction of
Cu2+ sites by NO. NO+ formation has been observed in other
zeolites, in particular in ZSM-5, but primarily was associated
with the reaction of [NO+][NO2] with protonic sites. As depicted
in Fig. 7, there seems to be a direct correlation between the
amount of NO+ and the amount of NO adsorbed onto Cu+; as NO
reduces Cu2+ to Cu+, NO+ forms and the thus produced Cu+ ions
can adsorb NO (intensity increase of the 1810 cm1 band as the
2165 cm1 band develops). Interestingly, co-adsorption of H2O
and NO on Cu–SSZ-13 resulted in the increase of the IR peak
intensity of the NO species adsorbed onto Cu2+ ions in the 8R,
and a concomitant decrease in the intensity if the IR band of
adsorbed NO on the Cu2+ ions in the 6R,100 in line with a prior
study that showed how the reducibility of Cu2+ ions increased as
they were pulled out from their most stable position (6R) into the
large cage of the CHA structure, close to the 8R.99 FT-IR spectra
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
of NO adsorbed on pre-oxidised Cu–SSZ-13 with increasing ion
exchange levels provided information about the variation of the
population of the two distinct cation positions; while at low
(B20%) ion exchange levels most of the Cu2+ ions are located in
the thermodynamically most stable cationic position associated
with the 6R, with increasing ion exchange levels the fraction of
Cu2+ ions in the 8R sites increases, becoming dominant at the
highest extent of exchange (B80%).106 Moreover, NO adsorption
on these Cu–SSZ-13 samples revealed that Cu2+ ions in the 6R
were very difficult to reduce, whereas Cu2+ ions in the 8R positions
are readily reduced by NO. In agreement with mechanistic studies
on Cu–ZSM-5, the NO+ ions formed in Cu–SSZ-13 zeolites by the
reduction of Cu2+ to Cu+ were proposed to be key intermediates in
the overall NH3-SCR reaction mechanism.106,107
The eﬀect of the activation treatment (i.e. either in O2 flow or
in vacuum) on the type and nature of Cu species was further
investigated by Giordanino et al.101 Cu+(NO) mononitrosyl
complexes were detected at low NO coverage on the vacuum
activated sample, while increasing coverage resulted in the
formation of Cu+(NO)2 dinitrosyls. Both types of species were
also detected on the O2 activated sample, probably due to the pre-
treatment, after desorption experiments have been carried out.
Interestingly, the bands of mononitrosyl and dinitrosyl species
exhibit a very similar shape and position to those observed on the
vacuum activated sample, indicating that the Cu+ location and
distribution are not aﬀected by the activation treatment. Addi-
tionally, bands corresponding to Cu2+(NO) species were also seen
in the spectra, with diﬀerent contributions, possibly due to the
location of Cu2+ ions at diﬀerent cation positions. In line with
the results obtained using CO as a probe, a band assigned to
Cu–OH  NO adducts (1890 cm1) was detected, providing
further support to the presence of [Cu2+(OH)]+ species in O2
activated Cu–SSZ-13.101
NO has also been used as a molecular probe to characterize
Fe2+ ions in both fresh and HTA Fe–SSZ-13 samples.103 The IR
spectra of the fresh catalyst recorded at room temperature after
annealing at 773 K for 2 h were very similar to those reported
for other Fe-exchanged zeolites,108–113 showing the presence of
mono-, di-, and tri-nitrosyl species associated with Fe2+ ions
within the SSZ-13 structure (Fig. 8). At low NO coverage, a
vibrational feature characteristic of Fe2+-bound mono-nitrosyl
species developed at 1887 cm1 with a shoulder at 1902 cm1,
representing nitrosyl groups adsorbed to Fe2+ ions in two differ-
ent coordination environments. Increasing NO coverage resulted
in the appearance of new features at 1772 and 1833 cm1,
representing N–O vibrations of Fe2+-bound dinitrosyl species.
Concomitantly, another IR band developed at 2158 cm1, attrib-
uted to NO+ species. The intensities of all of these bands
increased with increasing NO coverage, and eventually new bands
of Fe2+-bound tri-nitrosyls appeared at 1916, 1813 and 1801 cm1.
As molecularly adsorbed NO in Fe2+(NO)3 species are weakly held,
it could be completely removed by evacuation at room tempera-
ture. Dinitrosyl and mononitrosyl species were consecutively
decomposed upon heating from 295 to 500 K, while NO+ species
were still present even after annealing at 500 K.103
IR spectroscopic studies using NO have also been performed
to gain further insight into the intermediate species formed
during the SCR reaction. Ruggeri et al. recently performed an
in situ DRIFTS study of NO2, NO + O2 and NO adsorption to
investigate NO oxidation to NO2,114 previously proposed to be
the rate-determining step for the SCR reaction (see Section 4.
Catalytic Chemistry and Mechanisms). Both NO+ (2140 cm1)
and nitrates (bidentate nitrates at 1590 and 1570 cm1, and
bridging nitrates at 1620 cm1) were simultaneously detected
upon NO2 introduction, whereas nitrates appeared only after
NO+ when the catalyst was exposed to NO + O2. Accordingly,
nitrosonium cations (NO+) were proposed as key intermediates,
and two diﬀerent mechanisms were anticipated for their for-
mation from either NO2 or NO + O2, i.e. oxidation of NO on Cu2+
sites and NO2 disproportionation. Notably, no NO+ and nitrates
Fig. 7
Series of selected IR spectra obtained after exposure of annealed
Cu–SSZ-13 samples to NO at 300 K. The samples were annealed in a
vacuum at 773 K for 2 h prior to IR measurements. Adapted with permis-
sion from (J. Szanyi, et al., Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2013, 15(7), 2368).
Fig. 8
Series of selected IR spectra obtained after exposure of annealed
Fe–SSZ-13 samples to NO at 300 K. The samples were annealed in a
vacuum at 773 K for 2 h prior to IR measurements.
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
were formed on a pre-reduced Cu–SSZ-13 sample when only NO
was fed, providing evidence of the redox nature of NO oxidation
to NO2. According to the results obtained, and assuming that
NO oxidation takes place on Cu dimers, a reaction mechanism
was proposed.114
Formation of nitrates on Cu–SSZ-13 upon NO + O2 or NO2 +
O2 adsorption has been recently reported by different groups.
Xie et al. indicated the formation of monodentate (1504 cm1),
bidentate (1573 and 1596 cm1) and bridging nitrates (1631 cm1)
on a Cu–SSZ-13 zeolite prepared by one-pot synthesis methods,115
while different assignments were proposed by Ma et al.116 At
low temperatures (100 1C), bands at 1574 and 1601 cm1 were
detected, attributed to bidentate and monodentate nitrates,
respectively, together with a band at 1500 cm1, assigned to
nitrite species. The intensity of these bands decreased with
increasing temperatures (200 1C), concurring with the appear-
ance of a new feature at 1622 cm1, attributed to surface
adsorbed NO2.116
Additionally, DRIFT spectroscopy of adsorbed NO has been
employed to gain information on the eﬀects of hydrothermal
ageing on Cu–SSZ-13 zeolites with different Cu loadings and Si/
Al ratios.117 In agreement with previous studies, the spectra
recorded for the fresh catalysts showed the presence of NO
adsorbed on Cu2+ sites located in the CHA cages (1910 cm1),
NO adsorbed on Cu2+ located on the 6R units (1948 cm1), and
NO adsorbed on the Cu+ ions (1810 cm1), most likely formed
during the catalyst pre-treatment. After ageing at 850 1C, the
peaks of NO adsorbed on Cu2+ sites decreased in intensity for
the low and medium Cu-loaded samples, while for the high-
loaded samples or else the samples with high Si/Al ratio these
peaks were absent. Based on these findings, it was concluded
that Cu2+ species located on the CHA cages are more prone to
agglomerate during hydrothermal ageing, leading to the collapse
of the zeolite structure. Thus, the hydrothermal stability of the
catalyst decreases with increasing Cu loadings or with decreasing
Al contents (i.e. as the relative number of framework Al atoms in
the 6R decreases or the Cu content increases, more Cu2+ ions are
likely to be coordinated in the CHA cage, wherein the aggregation
of Cu species is favoured).117
3.2.2.4. IR spectroscopy of adsorbed NH3. Ammonia is prob-
ably one of the most frequently used probe molecules for the
characterisation of acid properties of solid catalysts. It is small
in size and a hard Lewis base, so can be strongly bonded to a
wide variety of sites. Therefore, it cannot be considered as a very
specific probe molecule and it may not always provide ideal
properties for studies of surface acidity.105 Nevertheless, the use
of NH3 as a probe is of special interest for the investigation of
the SCR reaction, as it is employed as a NOx reducing agent. In
particular, research eﬀorts have been focused on the study of
NH3 adsorbed species and their reactivity under SCR condi-
tions, essential to elucidate the role of the diﬀerent species in
NH3 storage, as well as their contribution to the NH3 slip.
Zhu et al. employed for the first time DRIFT spectroscopy
to investigate the type and nature of NH3 adsorbed species
on Cu–SSZ-13 (activated at 773 K for 1 h in flowing He).118
After NH3 adsorption at 373 K, the IR spectra displayed differ-
ent features corresponding to two distinct NH3 species; bands
at 3352, 3182 and 1620 cm1 were assigned to adsorbed NH3
on Lewis acid sites (i.e. Cu ions), while features at 3262 and
1454 cm1 were attributed to adsorbed NH3 on Brønsted acid
sites, present as a result of the incomplete ion exchange of the
catalyst.118 In zeolite materials, a Brønsted acid site corresponds
to the proton used to charge balance –Al–O(H)–Si– species and
where, upon adsorption, NH3 becomes protonated forming NH4
+
ions. A Lewis acid site, on the other hand, describes a coordina-
tively unsaturated electropositive species that can interact with a
Lewis base i.e. molecular NH3, to form a chemical bond via the
lone pair on NH3. A Lewis acid site can be an extra-framework
Al site, or an extra-framework cationic site (including Cu-ion
sites). In partial agreement, Lezcano-Gonzalez et al. combined
FT-IR transmission spectroscopy of adsorbed NH3 with DFT-
based simulations, indicating the presence of at least three
types of NH3 adsorbed species on Cu–SSZ-13 samples with
different ion exchange levels, activated at 523 K under flowing
O2.88 As seen in Fig. 9, these included ammonium ions (1448
and 1393 cm1, d(NH4
+)as and d(NH4
+)s, respectively), formed
on the Brønsted acid sites, [Cu(NH3)4]2+ complexes (1619 and
1278 cm1, d(NH3)as and NH3 wagging, respectively), resulting from
NH3 coordination with the Cu2+ Lewis sites, and NH3 adsorbed
on extra-framework Al (EFAl) species (1620 and 1324 cm1).
Interestingly, the FTIR spectrum of the Cu–SSZ-13 sample with
100% exchange showed two intense bands of the bridging
hydroxyl groups, at 3605 and 3585 cm1, comparable to those
observed for the parent material, indicating that Brønsted acid
sites remained in the sample despite complete Cu2+-exchange.
Additionally, a broad band centred at 3655 cm1 was also present,
previously attributed to the n(OH) stretch of [Cu2+(OH)]+
complexes.101 Accordingly, the authors indicated that some of
Fig. 9
FTIR diﬀerence spectra of NH3 adsorbed on H–SSZ-13 (a),
Cu–SSZ-13(67) (b), and Cu–SSZ-13(100) (c) zeolites at 250 1C. Adapted
with permission from (I. Lezcano-Gonzalez, et al., Phys. Chem. Chem.
Phys., 2014, 16, 1639).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
the Cu2+ ions were also probably present in the form of mono-
valent complexes, thereby resulting in an incomplete reduction
in the number of Brønsted acid sites.88 In relation to this, it is
worth noting that, recently, the formation of [Cu2+(OH)]+
species on the Cu–SSZ-13 zeolite upon dehydration under O2
flow has been confirmed by FT-IR spectroscopy, and explained
according to two different mechanisms, depending on whether
only one or two framework Al sites in close proximity.76
Following a similar approach, Giordanino et al. have also
indicated the presence of several types of NH3 species.119 Besides
NH4
+ ions formed on the Brønsted acid sites and NH3 adsorbed
on the Cu sites, it was shown that solvated NH4
+ species were also
present. Furthermore, in line with the results reported by
Lezcano-Gonzalez et al.,88 the authors observed that the intensi-
ties of the bands of the Brønsted acid sites were higher than
expected and comparable to the parent H-form zeolite, pointing to
the presence of monovalent Cu complexes, such as [Cu2+(OH)]+
species. Based on NH3-temperature programmed desorption
followed by FT-IR, it was revealed that NH3 bonded to Brønsted
sites was more abundant at high temperatures (4673 K), while
at lower temperatures, both solvated NH4
+ species and NH3
bonded to Cu sites were more stable.119
3.2.2.5. In situ/in operando IR SCR studies. To investigate the
reactivity of the NH3 species formed on Cu–SSZ-13, Zhu et al.
employed in situ DRIFTS (i.e. combined with simultaneous
analysis of gas products by mass spectrometry) using gas feeds
of NO2, NO + O2, and NO2 + O2.118 Importantly, at low
temperatures, NH3 species adsorbed on Lewis acid sites were
more active than those adsorbed on Brønsted sites. The overall
reaction rate increased with increasing reaction temperature,
and was faster when using NO + O2 or NO2 + O2 that NO2 alone.
Moreover, the selectivity to N2 was much higher when NO + O2
or NO2 + O2 mixtures were used.118 In line with these findings,
Lezcano-Gonzalez et al. performed in situ FT-IR transmission
studies of the reaction of adsorbed NH3 under standard SCR
conditions, indicating that NH4
+ ions formed on the Brønsted
acid sites reacted very slowly in comparison to NH3 coordinated
to the Cu2+ ions.88 From the results obtained, it was concluded
that NH4
+ ions barely contribute directly to the SCR process,
and that Brønsted acid sites may not be indispensable, acting
merely as NH3 storage sites. Importantly, the results obtained
on a Cu–SSZ-13 sample with 100% exchange (i.e. prepared by
successive ion exchanges) showed a substantial increase in the
reaction rate of NH4
+ species, suggesting that the availability/
reactivity of NH4
+ ions can be notably improved by submitting
the SSZ-13 zeolite to repeated exchanges with Cu2+.88
Ma et al. employed in situ DRIFTS to compare the reactive
properties of Cu–SSZ-13 and Cu–SAPO-34.116 Prior to the experi-
ments, drilled cores of Cu–SSZ-13 and Cu–SAPO-34 washcoated
on cordierite monoliths were aged at 750 1C for 16 h in a nitrogen
gas mixture with 14% O2, 5% CO2 and 5% H2O and the aged
catalysts were scrapped from the monoliths to obtain powder
samples. At low temperatures (220 1C), DRIFTS spectra for the
reaction of adsorbed NH3 and NO, NO + O2, NO2 and NO + NO2
showed the formation of nitrate species and NO2. The catalytic
reaction was greatly improved when NO and NO2 were simulta-
neously introduced, whereas the presence of oxygen increased
the reaction rate of the NH4
+ ions. A similar reactivity was
observed for Cu–SAPO-34, suggesting that the NH3-SCR reac-
tion might follow similar routes for both catalysts. When the
reaction was carried out at higher temperatures (350 1C) the
reactivity of NH4
+ ions followed the order NO2 4 NO + O2 4 NO
on both Cu–SSZ-13 and Cu–SAPO-34. Nevertheless, NH4
+ ions
were consumed earlier on SAPO-34, indicating a faster reaction
rate, in agreement with the activity data.116 Following the same
approach, the effects of propene poisoning were also examined.120
Additionally, coked samples were prepared at 350 1C for 6 h using
a gas mixture with 500 ppm C3H6 and 10% O2 in N2. From the
results obtained it was shown that, at low temperatures, com-
petitive adsorption between NOx and C3H6 contributed to the
deactivation of Cu–SSZ-13, while NH3 adsorption was not inhi-
bited by the presence of propene or influenced by coke deposi-
tion. Conversely, at higher temperatures the deposition of coke
was the main reason for catalyst deactivation.120
In situ DRIFTS experiments have also been conducted to
investigate the inhibitory eﬀect of NO2 over a one-pot-synthesized
Cu–SSZ-13 zeolite.115 Initially, the catalyst was only exposed to
1000 ppm NH3/N2 or 1000 ppm NO(NO2) + 5%O2 so as to
identify the type of adsorbed species. Upon NH3 adsorption,
bands corresponding to NH4
+ species and NH3 coordinated to
the Lewis acid sites were detected, whereas exposure to NO + O2
or NO2 + O2 led to the formation of three types of nitrate
species; i.e. monodentate, bidentate and bridging nitrates.
Experiments under standard SCR conditions showed the for-
mation of adsorbed NH3 species on both Lewis and Brønsted
acid sites, as well as a small amount of NH4NO3. Conversely,
under fast SCR conditions the formation of NH4NO3 species
was favoured. Since NH4NO3 species could block the zeolite
pores and deactivate the active sites, the authors concluded that
the greater amount of NH4NO3 deposited was the main reason
for the inhibitory effect of NO2 on the NH3-SCR reaction in the
low temperature range.115
Mechanistic DRIFTS studies on heterobimetallic (La, Fe,
Sc and In) Cu–SSZ-13 zeolites have also been carried out to
elucidate the origin of the exceptional performance of these
materials at low reaction temperatures.121 From the results
obtained it was suggested to be related the formation to a higher
concentration of NO+ species, which possibly play an important
role in the fast SCR reaction. Presumably, the heterobimetallic
core favours the disproportionation reaction between NO and
NO2 to form and stabilise NO+ and NO2
.121
In operando DRIFTS has also been employed to investigate
the interaction of NO + O2 and NH3 over a Fe1.32/Cu–SSZ-13
catalyst.122 It was shown that cis-N2O2
2, NO3 and NO+ species,
generated from NO + O2 adsorption, were readily reduced to N2 by
both Lewis acid site-adsorbed NH3 and Brønsted acid site-adsorbed
NH3, evidencing that both NO+ and NO3
 are key intermediates in
the NH3-SCR reaction.122
3.2.2.6. IR spectroscopy of perturbed framework vibrations. In
addition to the identification of adsorbed molecules on diﬀerent
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
cationic sites in Cu–SSZ-13 zeolites, IR spectroscopy has also been
used to investigate the influence of metal ions in ion exchange
positions on the T–O–T vibrations of the zeolite framework.75,99
Extensive IR spectroscopy studies on the ‘‘perturbed’’ asymmetric
T–O–T framework vibrations have been conducted mostly on the
MFI structure.123–131 These investigations have shown that certain
T–O–T vibrational modes (IR features in the 800–1000 cm1
spectral region representing asymmetric internal T–O–T vibra-
tions of the zeolite framework) are very sensitive to both the
oxidation state of the Cu ions, as well as to the adsorbates
bound to these ions.123–131 The results of an in situ DRIFTS
study indicated that there were two perturbed T–O–T vibrations
in Cu–SSZ-13, and that the intensity ratio of these two IR features
varied with the Cu ion exchange level.99 At a low Cu ion exchange
level (B20%) only one band was observed at B900 cm1,
but with increasing Cu content another IR band developed at
B945 cm1. These two bands were assigned to the perturbed
asymmetric T–O–T vibrations of the CHA structure in the vicinity
of two distinct Cu2+ ion locations: Cu2+ in the 6R (B900 cm1),
and Cu2+ in the 8R. Cu2+ ions in these two distinct ion exchange
positions exhibited different propensity toward reduction: Cu2+
ions in both positions were reduced to Cu+ in H2, but Cu2+ in
the 8R were reduced first followed by the reduction of Cu2+ ions
in the 6R.99 Kwak et al. have shown that in a CO/He flow all the
Cu2+ ions in the 8R were reduced to Cu+, while Cu2+ ions in the
6R were completely resistant to reduction under the experi-
mental conditions applied.75 The combined DRIFTS/XANES study
of Kwak et al. has also revealed that the interaction between the
Cu ions and the zeolite framework is influenced by the adsorbates
bound to the Cu ions. For example, in the presence of adsorbed
water in the zeolite channels (when Cu2+ is present in a hexa-aqua
complex) the interaction between the cation and the framework is
weak, thus the perturbed T–O–T vibrations are almost completely
absent. Furthermore, when CO is adsorbed onto Cu+ ions, the
strength of cation/framework interaction is dependent upon the
number of CO molecules bound to the copper ion, and can be
followed by both the position and the intensity of the perturbed
asymmetric T–O–T vibrational features of the CHA framework
(Fig. 10). The variations in the IR spectra of perturbed T–O–T
vibrational features clearly indicated that Cu ions in the CHA
framework are highly mobile, and their exact positions are
determined by the ion exchange level, and, most importantly,
their interaction with molecules present in their environment.75
Under practical operating conditions, in the presence of strongly
interacting adsorbates (e.g., H2O, NH3, NOx, CO) cations most
likely reside in positions different from their idealized cationic
sites in the adsorbate-free CHA framework.
3.3.
Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy
Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy is a power-
ful tool for the characterisation of transition metal-containing
zeolites, especially due to its very high sensitivity as compared to
other spectroscopic techniques. It provides valuable information
about the oxidation state and local environment of paramagnetic
metal ions, allowing discriminating between diﬀerent geome-
tries and types of ligands.
EPR spectroscopy has been successfully used in the char-
acterisation of Cu-containing zeolites, especially for the deter-
mination of the oxidation state of the Cu species, its symmetry
and coordination number, or else its location within the zeolite
structure. Moreover, a number of studies have been devoted to
the investigation of Cu self-reduction, known to occur as a
result of the catalyst pre-treatment under inert or high vacuum
conditions. More information about the technique and its
application to the study of Cu-containing zeolites can be found
elsewhere.132
Gao et al. employed EPR spectroscopy to characterise hydrated
Cu–SSZ-13 zeolite samples with different Cu loadings.133 Spectra
recorded at room temperature showed all Cu species to be
present as EPR active Cu2+ ions, as confirmed by the gradual
increase in the signal intensity with increasing Cu contents. Note
that both Cu+ ions and Cu2+ dimers are EPR silent species. Two
distinct features were observed at high field, at 3334 and 3407 G,
with the latter dominating the spectrum at low Cu loadings and
becoming a shoulder at high loadings. Hyperfine features at low
field (i.e. hyperfine interaction between the unpaired electron
and the nuclear spin of Cu (I = 3/2)) were however, not well
resolved, possibly due to both Cu2+ mobility and strong dipolar
interactions between Cu2+ ions. Additionally, experiments were
also conducted at 155 K. As depicted in Fig. 11, the recorded
spectra exhibited a single feature at high field, and a better
resolved single hyperfine structure at low field. The extracted
g-value and hyperfine coupling constant (gJ = 2.394 and AJ = 131 G)
indicated the presence of Cu2+ ions in octahedral coordination.
Again, a linear relationship between Cu content and signal inten-
sity was also found.133
In addition, Cu–Cu distance estimations based on line
broadening of EPR spectra, attributed to distance-dependent
dipole–dipole interactions between Cu2+ ions, were also carried out.
At low Cu loadings, Cu–Cu distances were above 20 Å, suggesting
one Cu2+ ion within one hexagonal unit cell, possibly located
Fig. 10
Selected DRIFT spectra in the nasym(TOT) vibrational region recorded
from a CO-reduced Cu–SSZ-13 sample during cool down in a CO/He stream
from 400 to 25 1C. Adapted with permission from (J. H. Kwak, et al., J. Catal.,
2014, 314, 83–93).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
within the large CHA cages coordinated to lattice oxygen atoms
of the 6Rs. At higher Cu contents, the estimated Cu–Cu
distances substantially decreased, increasing the probabilities
of Cu2+ ions to be located within the same unit cell, and thereby
suggesting the presence of some Cu ions occupying positions in
the large CHA cages and close to the 8Rs.133
With the aim of further characterising the EPR active Cu2+
species, Giordanino et al. performed EPR measurements on
hydrated and O2 activated Cu–SSZ-13 samples, recording the
spectra at room temperature.101 The results obtained on the
fully hydrated sample were in complete agreement with those
reported by Gao et al., showing all Cu to be EPR active. Again,
the intensity of the EPR signal correlated with the Cu content,
further confirming that all Cu species are present as Cu2+ ions.
Interestingly, both isotropic and anisotropic features were
observed in the spectrum, indicating that part of the Cu species
present have full rotational freedom. In contrast, only aniso-
tropic Cu was observed after O2 activation, attributed to a
stronger interaction between Cu and the CHA framework once
the hydration shell of Cu is lost.101
Later, Gao et al. employed EPR spectroscopy to investigate
hydrated Cu–SSZ-13 samples with very low Cu loadings, so as to
avoid dipolar interactions between Cu2+ ions.134 Hyperfine
features showed more than one Cu2+ species, suggesting that
part of the Cu2+ ions are interacting with the framework. While
for the spectra recorded at 120 K line-broadening was not
observed, the spectra acquired from room temperature to
200 1C showed the Cu2+ ions to be highly mobile, only becom-
ing immobile again upon extensive dehydration (at 250 1C), in
line with the results obtained by Giordanino et al.101 The lack of
hyperfine structures and the loss of high-field signal between
100 and 200 1C were attributed to dipolar interactions between
Cu2+ ions, while the formation of EPR silent species, such as
Cu+, was ruled out. To further support this, complementary FT-IR
experiments of adsorbed NO were carried out, evidencing that Cu+
species were not formed after dehydration at 150 1C.134
Very recently, in situ EPR studies have been performed during
diﬀerent dehydration and rehydration treatments, providing
quantitative data about the Cu species present in Cu–SSZ-13.135
It was reported that after dehydration, only 25% of the Cu present
is EPR active, corresponding to isolated Cu2+ species in the
6R rings balanced by two framework Al atoms (18%), five-
coordinated Cu2+ sites (4%), and Cu2+ in noncrystalline Al sites
(3%). Based on the signal recovery after different treatments,
EPR silent species were also tentatively assigned; i.e. Cu2+–O–
Cu2+ dimers (12%), [Cu2+(OH)]+ species (50%), which easily
auto-reduce under He, and noncrystalline polynuclear copper
oxide clusters and subnanoparticles (13%). It was argued that
in [Cu2+(OH)]+ complexes, Cu2+ is in a planar coordination,
and thus EPR silent due to the pseudo Jahn–Teller effect. After
water exposure, Cu2+ acquires a tetragonal environment, then
becoming EPR active. Likewise, dimeric species easily undergo
hydrolysis and become EPR active when exposed to water,
forming two [Cu2+(OH)]+ monomers that successively recover
the hydration shell.135
Alternately, EPR spectroscopy has also been employed
by several groups to characterise the Cu species present on
Cu–SSZ-13, investigating the type and nature of Cu ions in one-pot
synthesised Cu–SSZ-13,136 the influence of heteroatom incorpora-
tion121 or else the effect of hydrothermal deactivation,92,117,137
amongst others.
3.4.
Solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
spectroscopy
Solid-state NMR is a short-range, element specific spectroscopy
that provides information about the local environment around
a particular element. Though being less sensitive than other
spectroscopic techniques, it has been widely used for the
structural and dynamic characterisation of zeolites, especially
for the investigation of the local structure of framework and
extra-framework atoms, surface acidic sites, interaction and
dynamics of adsorbed species (e.g. organic structure directing
agents), or else the location and mobility of exchangeable cations.
For further information on the application of solid-state NMR to
the characterisation of zeolites, see ref. 138.
In the particular case of Cu-containing zeolites, solid-state
NMR has been mostly applied to study the distribution of Al
species within the zeolite framework, namely by 29Si and 27Al
Magic Angle Spinning (MAS) NMR experiments. Al distribution
may aﬀect the structure and location of the Cu species, and thus
their catalytic activity. Additionally, 27Al MAS NMR has been
used to investigate the influence of hydrothermal and chemical
deactivation, which can lead to the extraction of tetrahedrally-
coordinated framework Al atoms, and thus the formation of
extra-framework species. The diﬀerent Al species present can be
readily detected by 27Al MAS NMR. It is worth noting, however,
that even though the isotropic chemical shift of Al oﬀers
information about the coordination, residual second-order
quadrupolar broadening may result in a spectrum with no
well-resolved resonances shifted with respect to their isotropic
chemical shift. In this case, the MQMAS experiment can be used.
Also importantly, it has to be considered that the presence of
Fig. 11
EPR spectra of hydrated Cu–SSZ-13 samples measured at 155 K.
Samples with different ion-exchange levels are displayed with different
colors. The inset displays integrated signal areas versus ion-exchange levels.
Adapted with permission from (F. Gao, et al., J. Catal., 2013, 300, 20).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
paramagnetic Cu species may also lead to a lower spectral
resolution due to paramagnetic line broadening.
To date, several studies employing 27Al MAS NMR spectro-
scopy for the investigation of hydrothermal and chemical deac-
tivation of Cu–SSZ-13 zeolites have been published, and the main
observations can be summarised as follows.92,139,140 Framework
dealumination takes place as a result of hydrothermal ageing, as
seen by the pronounced decrease in the intensity of the signal of
tetrahedral Al atoms (ca. 50–60 ppm).92,139–141 However, no new
peaks of extra-framework Al species, with octahedral coordina-
tion (ca. 0–10 ppm), are detected, possibly due to the interaction
between paramagnetic Cu and octahedrally-coordinated Al
species.92,139 While no significant framework dealumination
is observed after chemical deactivation by Zn, Pt or Ca intro-
duction, a partial disruption of the zeolite framework occurs upon
P poisoning; i.e. a significant decrease in the peak of tetrahedral
Al is observed, concurring with the appearance of a broad
resonance attributed to octahedral Al interacting with P.142 The
effects of P poisoning have also been complementarily studied by
31P MAS NMR spectroscopy, aiming to identify the type and
nature of the species formed. While no AlPO4 species are detected,
P species with different degrees of polymerization are observed.142
Additionally, 27Al MAS NMR spectroscopy has also been employed
to characterise Cu–SSZ-13 samples prepared by different methods
(i.e. conventional wet ion exchange and chemical vapour deposi-
tion), showing that no framework dealumination takes place as a
result of the preparation method.143
15N MAS NMR experiments have also been conducted to
investigate the interaction of NO with Cu–SSZ-13 zeolites,
specifically to obtain information on the nature and structure
of Cu+–NO+ complexes. Spectra recorded (Fig. 12) using differ-
ent spinning rates showed the presence of a signal centred at
399.7 ppm, assigned to Cu+-bound NO as neither adsorbed
NO nor Cu2+-bonded NOx are expected to be detected due to
paramagnetic line broadening. Interestingly, the different inten-
sity observed for the spinning side bands in each spectrum
suggested an anisotropic environment for the nitrogen atom.
Accordingly, the sideband pattern was fitted, determining
the magnitude of the shielding anisotropy (d = 230.2 ppm)
and the asymmetry parameter (Z = 0.15). As the observed
asymmetry parameter was non-zero, it was concluded that there
is no axial symmetry, and hence that the Cu–N–O atoms are
not co-linear.
3.5.
Mo
¨ssbauer spectroscopy
Variable temperature 57Fe-Mo
¨ssbauer spectroscopy is ideally suited
to investigate the nature of Fe species in the fresh and HTA
(high temperature aged) Fe–SSZ-13 catalysts. Spectra collected
from hydrated samples at both ambient and liquid nitrogen
temperatures allowed the identification of iron species in different
oxidation states (+2 and +3) and coordination environments.103
The Mo
¨ssbauer spectrum obtained from the fully hydrated
fresh sample at room temperature suggested the presence of
two types of Fe3+ species: monoferric [Fe(OH)2]+ and diferric-oxo
[HO–Fe–O–Fe–OH]2+ complexes. Acquisition of Mo
¨ssbauer spectra
at 77 K was essential to distinguish Fe species in different
magnetic states and to identify Fe species that were Mo
¨ssbauer
silent at ambient temperature. In addition to the two Fe3+ species
observed at ambient temperature the spectrum recorded at 77 K
revealed the presence of two other Fe species: Fe2+ and a minor
Fe3+ in FeOx clusters. The only detectable Fe species in the HTA
Fe–SSZ-13 were also in the +3 oxidation state. In the spectrum
recorded at 77 K (Fig. 13) three different Fe species were
identified, two representing Fe3+ and one Fe2+ ions. The some-
what different Mo
¨ssbauer parameters of the Fe3+ species in the
spectra of the HTA sample suggest that the environment around
Fig. 12
15N SS-MAS-NMR spectra of room temperature 15NO-exposed Cu–SSZ-13 at different spinning rates. (SSB: spinning side band). Adapted with
permission from (J. H. Kwak, et al., Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2013, 52, 9985–9989).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
these Fe3+ ions had changed during the aging process; some of
the Al3+ ions that were removed from the zeolite framework got
included into the FeOx clusters.103
3.6.
Temperature-programmed techniques
3.6.1.
Ammonia temperature-programmed desorption (NH3-
TPD). Ammonia temperature-programmed desorption (NH3-TPD)
is one of the most extensively used methods for measuring the
acidity of zeolites, providing information on the number of acidic
sites (i.e. Lewis or Brønsted) and the acid strength distribu-
tion.144,145 Thermal desorption of pre-adsorbed NH3 results in a
profile with diﬀerent desorption peaks; while the temperature of a
TPD peak is related to the acid strength of the adsorption sites,
the peak areas can be correlated with the concentration of acidic
sites. As TPD peaks may overlap due to the simultaneous
desorption of NH3 from diﬀerent sites, the technique can only
be used to discriminate diﬀerent acid strengths in an approxi-
mate way, and certainly limiting its applicability.145 Furthermore,
since TPD is unable to determine the origin of the adsorbed NH3,
it is often necessary to combine it with an in situ spectroscopy
technique such as FTIR.145
The characteristic NH3-TPD profile of Cu–SSZ-13 zeolites has
three desorption peaks, designated as low, intermediate and
high-temperature peaks, and corresponding to acidic sites with
different acid strength.88 The low-temperature (LT) desorption
peak, observed at ca. 180 1C, corresponds to weakly bound
NH3,146 and has been previously assigned to either NH3 mole-
cules solvating the NH4
+ ions (e.g., as N2H7
+ dimers) or to NH3
desorbed from Lewis sites;147 however, its identification is still
a matter of controversy. The high-temperature (HT) desorption
peak, centred at 480 1C, is considered to be due to strongly
bound NH3, arising from protonated NH3 formed over the
Brønsted acid sites,146 whereas the intermediate-temperature
peak, at 320 1C, has been attributed to NH3 adsorbed over the
Cu2+ sites.88 However, a few recent studies suggested acid
strengths of certain Lewis acid sites to be the same as Brønsted
ones, therefore, the HT desorption peak may have contribu-
tions from strong Lewis acidity.148–150
NH3-TPD performed in He and followed by FTIR allowed
us to identify the diﬀerent desorption sites and to study the
thermal stability of the NH3 species adsorbed on the Cu–SSZ-13
catalyst.119 The results obtained indicated the presence of NH3
bonded to copper sites, protonated NH3, formed on the Brønsted
acid sites, and solvated NH4
+ ions. While at 500 1C NH3 bonded
to copper sites was completely desorbed, protonated NH3 species
were still present (Fig. 14), suggesting a higher thermal stability
for NH4
+ ions. In addition, it was found that solvated NH4
+ ions
(i.e. NH4
+nNH3 associations) were more stable at T o 400 1C;
desorption of solvating NH3 molecules leads to non-solvated
NH4
+ ions, which further decomposed at temperatures above
400 1C.119Additionally, NH3-TPD has been applied in a number
of studies for the characterization of Cu–SSZ-13 zeolites, so
as to provide information about the effect of hydrothermal
ageing or chemical deactivation on the zeolite NH3 adsorption
capacity.120,142,151
3.6.2.
Hydrogen temperature-programmed reduction (H2-TPR).
Hydrogen temperature-programmed reduction (H2-TPR) is a
useful tool for the determination of the mean oxidation state
of the catalyst after reduction from the total amount of hydrogen
consumed during the reduction process. Nevertheless, careful
attention must be paid to the experimental conditions, since it
can largely influence the results obtained.
As shown in Fig. 15, the H2-TPR profile of a low Cu-loaded
(20%) Cu–SSZ-13 zeolite exhibits one H2 consumption peak at
340 1C, while higher Cu-loaded samples (40 to 100%) show
an additional peak at lower temperatures (ca. 230 1C) that
increases with increasing Cu loadings.99 Conversely, the high-
temperature peak remains unchanged at Cu ion exchange
levels above 40%, due to the presence of two Cu2+ species with
different reducibility. The less reducible Cu2+ species have a
stronger electrostatic interaction with the zeolite framework,
highly coordinated with lattice oxygens, and are probably located
inside the 6R or else placed within or close to the face of 6R.
Once these sites are saturated, Cu2+ ions occupy cationic posi-
tions inside the large zeolite cages, and most likely are easier
to reduce.99
Fig. 13
Mo
¨ssbauer spectra of the hydrated fresh (a) and hydrated high temperature aged (HTA) (b) Fe–SSZ-13 samples at 77 K. Adopted with permission
from (F. Gao, et al., Appl. Catal., B, 2015, 164, 407–419).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
4. Catalytic chemistry and
mechanisms
The chemistry involved in NH3-SCR is rather complicated. Not
only are the elementary reaction steps, especially the ones that
are rate-limiting, not fully understood, even the global pathways
are complex enough that an extensive reaction network is
generally required for a detailed description.5 The mechanism
for SCR over Cu/Fe ion exchanged zeolite catalysts is still widely
debated. The key points of disagreement are the following:152
(1) whether the catalytically relevant Cu/Fe species are mono-
meric or dimeric (even, perhaps very small oligomeric clusters);
(2) whether NO2 plays a significant role in the mechanism. While
some researchers suggest it is important and its formation could
even be the rate-limiting step,5 others argue against this;8,153–155
(3) whether Cu+/Fe2+ plays an important role in standard NH3-
SCR. If so Cu2+/Cu+ (Fe3+/Fe2+) redox cycling is important,
otherwise it is likely not. (4) Whether Cu– and Fe–CHA are
dual functional in SCR; that is, whether both Cu/Fe ion sites
and Brønsted acid sites collectively provide the catalytic func-
tionality. Note that it is much easier to propose a seemingly
reasonable mechanism than to prove its rigidity. For the latter, a
plausible one must be consistent with reaction kinetics acquired
without artifacts (mass and/or heat transfer limitations, etc.) and
must be consistent with operando spectroscopic evidence. Perhaps
equally challenging is to distinguish a possible reaction pathway
from a dominant reaction pathway. For the various spectroscopic
methods that can be used in situ/in operando for NH3-SCR, none
of them is without limitations. For example, diffuse reflectance
infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) is widely
available for in situ NH3-SCR studies. However, this technique
suffers from the fact that the spectra acquired are dominated
by strongly bound species (NH3, NH4
+, nitrates) while the short-
lived, potentially more important species (NOx, nitrites) in elucidat-
ing a reaction mechanism are often not detected and quantified.
Therefore, DRIFTS may be used to identify certain reaction
pathways, but it is often incapable of ruling out others. As
another example, X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES)
provides powerful means of identifying Cu2+/Cu+ under standard
SCR conditions. However quantification cannot be done without
ambiguity because of the difficulty in defining ‘‘ideal’’ reference
spectra of the Cu–ligand/adsorbate complexes under reaction
conditions.
In view of the complexities described above, most relevant
catalytic chemistry for SCR, namely NO oxidation, NH3 oxidation,
and standard, fast and NO2-SCR reactions, will be presented
individually in this section. Focus will be given on CHA-based
catalysts. However it is not possible and not appropriate to
isolate CHA-based catalysts from the huge body of literature on
zeolite-based SCR catalysts. Key discoveries made on other
zeolite-based SCR catalysts will also be included when needed.
With regard to the disagreements in the literature mentioned
above, we intend to describe rather than judge diﬀerent views
unless our own studies provide strong evidence in favor of certain
arguments.
4.1.
NO oxidation
In the confined internal space provided by CHA cages, there
exists a finite probability for NO oxidation (2NO + O2 = 2NO2)
without the existence of Cu/Fe ions. To study the contribution
from Cu/Fe ion sites, this ‘‘background’’ reaction should be
considered and NO2 formed via this route should be subtracted.
Fig. 14
Helium NH3-temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) over
Cu–SSZ-13 followed by FTIR in the 100–500 1C temperature range.
Spectra are reported in both n(NH) (panel a) and d(NH) (panel b, spectra
reported after the subtraction of the spectrum of the dehydrated zeolite
sample) regions. Gray curves refer to spectra recorded at intermediate
temperature. In panel a, the spectrum of the dehydrated sample is also
reported (orange curve). Panel c shows the deconvoluted d(NH) spectra
of NH4
+ ions at different desorption temperatures. Filled area refers to
NH4nNH3 association band observed at 1460 cm1. The two other compo-
nents at 1450 and 1400 cm1 refer to the antisymmetric and symmetric
bending vibrations of NH4
+. Adapted with permission from (F. Giordanino,
et al., J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 2014, 5, 1552).
Fig. 15
H2 consumption profiles during H2-TPR on 500 1C-calcined
Cu–SSZ-13 (wtcat = 50 mg; heating rate = 10 1C min1; total flow rate =
60 ml min1 of 2% H2/Ar). Cu ion exchange level: 20% (red), 40% (green),
60% (blue), 80% (purple), and 100% (black)—bottom to top. (J. H. Kwak,
et al., Chem. Commun., 2012, 48, 4758–4760).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
By doing so, Gao et al. discovered that for Cu–SSZ-13 catalysts
at Si/Al = 6, NO oxidation activity in the presence of H2O is
essentially zero below B400 1C at Cu/Al r 0.29 (Fig. 16).152
Similarly, Verma et al. also reported that under dry reaction
conditions and at 270 1C, NO oxidation activity is absent at
Cu/Al o 0.2 in their samples (Si/Al = 4.5).95 These findings led to
the following conclusions: (1) Cu–SSZ-13 samples with relatively
low Cu/Al ratios are dominated with isolated Cu2+ ions, and
(2) isolated Cu2+ ions are incapable of catalyzing NO oxidation to
NO2. These conclusions receive support from theoretical calcula-
tions that isolated Cu2+ in the face of the 6 ring is incapable of
activating O2.95 Obviously, Cu moieties that are active for this
reaction must be the ones that activate O2: isolated Cu+, CuxOy
oligomers (including Cu-dimers), or CuxOy particles. In situ
XANES measurements by Verma et al. appear to allow isolated
Cu+ to be ruled out and leave CuxOy oligomers the likely
species. Ex situ EPR measurements by Gao et al. on freshly
prepared Cu–SSZ-13 samples (Si/Al = 6) in a hydrated state
reveal that essentially all Cu2+ ions (up to Cu/Al = 0.45) are
detectable indicating that they are all isolated (CuxOy oligomers
are EPR silent).53 This indicates that under NO oxidation reac-
tion conditions, isolated Cu2+ ions can oligomerize to generate
the active sites. In light of the fact that at high Cu loadings large
amounts of isolated Cu2+ ions stay as [Cu(OH)]+,156 one plausible
reaction that accounts for the generation of such active sites is
shown below:
[Cu(OH)]+ + [Cu(OH)]+ " [Cu–O–Cu]2+ + H2O
(3)
Although it is not clear at present whether or not a [Cu–O–Cu]2+
species is the oligomeric moiety that presents in highly Cu-loaded
Cu–SSZ-13 (double bridged m-oxo and m-hydroxo Cu–dimers,
for example, are also the obvious candidates),94 the important
message here is that in order to oxidize NO to gaseous NO2,
Cu-moieties with extra lattice oxygen (ELO) are required. Still
using [Cu–O–Cu]2+ as a model active center, the reaction pathways
can be written as the following, according to a Mars van-Krevelen
(redox) type of mechanism:
[CuII–O–CuII]2+ + NO = [CuI–[]–CuI]2+ + NO2
(4)
2[CuI–[]–CuI]2+ + O2 = 2[CuII–O–CuII]2+
(5)
Another key message is a dynamic view of the Cu-ion centers
under reaction conditions (as will be shown below, this also
applies to other SCR-related reactions). For example, reaction
(3) should be viewed as a reversible process such that under
ambient conditions oligomeric species can hydrolyze to gen-
erate isolated ions while at elevated temperatures isolated
ions can combine to generate active sites for certain reactions
(e.g., NO oxidation). In this sense, one has to realize and be
very cautious in correlating reaction kinetics and ex situ
characterization.
Fig. 17 presents NO oxidation rates (normalized with sample
weight, the same as Fig. 16) as a function of temperature on a
Fe–SSZ-13 catalyst (Si/Al = 12, Fe/Al = 0.2) under both ‘dry’ and
‘wet’ reaction conditions.65 A direct comparison between Fig. 16
and 17 immediately reveals that Fe–SSZ-13 is substantially
more active even than the highest Cu-loaded Cu–SSZ-13. In
the absence of H2O, this sample is even more active. Mo
¨ssbauer
spectroscopic measurements reveal that even under ambient
hydrated conditions, this sample contains B40% dimeric Fe
sites.65 Following a similar argument shown above that mono-
mers are incapable of catalyzing this reaction, one can conclude
that dimeric Fe sites are the active centers for NO oxidation and
in the absence of H2O, density of such sites increases via
reactions similar to that shown in (3). However, the inhibition
role for H2O does not appear to be the destruction of active sites
alone as suggested by Sjo
¨vall et al.,149 competitive occupation
with the reactants for the same sites should be considered
as another cause. Indeed, according to a detailed kinetic
study reported by Metkar et al., although H2O greatly inhibits
NO oxidation activities for both Cu- and Fe-zeolites, it does
Fig. 16
NO oxidation rates as a function of temperature for the various
Cu/SSZ-13 samples. Reactant feed contains 350 ppm NO, 14% O2, 2.5%
H2O balanced with N2 at a GHSV of 100000 h1. Diﬀerent symbols represent
samples with diﬀerent Cu loadings as indicated in the figure. Adapted with
permission from (F. Gao, et al., J. Catal., 2014, 319, 1–14).
Fig. 17
Normalized reaction rate as a function of temperature during NO
oxidation on a freshly prepared Fe/SSZ-13 with Si/Al = 12 and Fe/Al = 0.2.
Reactant feed contains 350 ppm NO, 14% O2, none or 2.5% H2O balanced
with N2 at a GHSV of 200 000 h1. Modified with permission from (F. Gao,
et al., Appl. Catal., B, 2015, 164, 407–419).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
not alter parameters of their power law kinetic model shown
below:157
RNOoxi ¼ kf
½NOa½O2b
½NO2c
(6)
This study also reveals stronger inhibition from NO2 for Cu–
CHA (c E 1.0) than for Fe–ZSM-5 (c E 0.5) thus providing one
explanation why Fe/zeolites are more active in NO oxidation.
4.2.
NH3 oxidation
NH3 oxidation to N2 (4NH3 + 3O2 = 2N2 + 6H2O) is referred to as
‘‘non-selective NH3 oxidation’’ in standard NH3-SCR as a major
side reaction. The same chemistry, when, for example NH3 slip
elimination is concerned, is termed ‘‘selective catalytic oxidation
(SCO)’’ instead.149,158–163 While performance types of studies are
abundant, mechanistic studies for this reaction are surprisingly
scarce.158,162 Ramis et al. used FTIR to investigate NH3 adsorption
and transformation on V2O5-based and CuO/TiO2 catalysts.158
The detection of N2H4 (in the absence of NO and O2) allowed
them to propose the following mechanism for N2 formation:
NH3(ads) = NH2(ads) + H+ + e
(7)
2NH2(ads) = N2H4(ads)
(8)
N2H4(ads) = N2 + 4H+ + 4e
(9)
Such a mechanism is at least to some extent speculative since
the detection of N2H4 was performed without the presence of O2.
Indeed, Amblard et al., when using DRIFTS to study surface
vibrations of NH3 and its derivatives on a Ni/Al2O3 catalyst in the
presence of O2, failed to observe any spectroscopic similarity
between NH3/O2 and N2H4.164 Instead, they suggested a SCR-type
of reaction mechanism involving two steps:
4NH3 + 5O2 = 4NO + 6H2O
(10)
4NH3 + 4NO + O2 = 4N2 + 6H2O (Standard SCR)
(11)
For zeolite-based catalysts (i.e., Fe–ZSM-5), Qi et al. were able
to detect NO adsorbed on Fe sites via FTIR under NH3 oxidation
conditions.162 They, therefore, also suggested the two-step
mechanism. It should be noted that these proposals should
not be judged as conclusive due to the intrinsic limitations of
using FTIR to determine reaction mechanisms: a key reaction
intermediate may very well be below the detection limit and
that a detectable species may very well be a spectator. For
Fe-zeolite catalysts, the correlation between N2 selectivity for
the SCO reaction and activity for the SCR reaction found by
Yang and coworkers, i.e., catalysts display higher SCR activity
also display higher N2 selectivity in SCO, seems to better justify
a two-step mechanism.161,162 In spite of uncertainty in the
detailed reaction mechanism, however, a key elementary step
must be hydrogen abstraction from adsorbed NH3 (eqn (7)) and
a high N–H bond energy for NH3 (B390 kJ mol1) makes this
step potentially a rate-limiting one.
To probe the nature of the Cu active centers, Gao et al.
utilized a series of Cu–SSZ-13 samples with Si/Al = 6 and varying
Cu/Al ratios (B0.11 to 0.45) to study NH3 oxidation in the
presence of B2.5% H2O in the feed.53 This initial study sub-
stantiated three key points worth noting: (1) NH3 oxidation rates
increase with increasing Cu loading; (2) two kinetic regimes,
separated at a common temperature of B250 1C, are found;
(3) apparent activation energies in the lower-temperature regime
are B130 kJ mol1 and those in the higher-temperature regime
are B60 kJ mol1. From these experimental findings, it appears
that the reaction rate limiting steps do not vary dramatically as a
function of Cu loading, but they certainly do as a function of
temperature. In a subsequent study, the authors utilized samples
with a wider range of Cu/Al ratios to further probe structure–
function relationships. Fig. 18 presents normalized rates
(mol NH3 g1 s1) as a function of temperature in the differential
regime and Fig. 19 displays detailed reaction rate vs. Cu loading
correlations at selected temperatures. As displayed in Fig. 19(b),
reaction rates vary linearly with Cu loading at B350 1C and
above. This linear behavior indicates fulfillment of the Koros–
Nowak criterion165,166 so that mass and heat transfer limitations
are ruled out; moreover, this strongly suggests that the catalyti-
cally active centers are isolated Cu-ion monomers. This follows
since at such high temperatures and, especially for samples with
relatively low Cu loadings, the presence of catalytic centers other
than Cu-ion monomers is highly unlikely. Rather dramatically,
however, at B300 1C and below, reaction rates vary linearly only
with the square of Cu loading.152 While in a fully hydrated form
under ambient conditions all Cu2+ ions in these samples are
EPR detectable (including the highest Cu-loaded sample at
Cu/Al = 0.45) indicating that they stay as isolated Cu2+ ion
monomers,53 under NH3 oxidation conditions at relatively low
temperatures, it appears that dimeric Cu centers that form
under reaction conditions are the actual active centers.
Such transformation of Cu ion centers is not unexpected. Even
at relatively low Cu loadings, Cu2+ ions should not be deemed as
‘‘naked’’ (i.e., Cu2+ ions coordinate only with lattice oxygen but
not other extra-framework ligands) under low-temperature NH3
Fig. 18
NH3 oxidation rates as a function of temperature for the various
Cu/SSZ-13 samples. Reactant feed contains 350 ppm NH3, 14% O2, 2.5%
H2O balanced with N2 at a GHSV of 400 000 h1. Diﬀerent symbols
represent samples with diﬀerent Cu loadings. The dashed horizontal line
represents an NH3 conversion of 20%. Adapted with permission from (F. Gao,
et al., J. Catal., 2014, 319, 1–14).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
oxidation conditions. H2O and NH3 storage by the CHA cages
eﬀectively creates a basic environment such that [Cu(OH)]+
formation becomes highly likely:
NH3 + H2O " NH4
+ + OH
(12)
Cu2+ + OH= [Cu(OH)]+
(13)
Furthermore, complexes of Cu2+ ions with NH3, for example
[CuII(NH3)4]2+, [CuI(NH3)2]+ and [Cu(OH)(NH3)x]+, are also expected
to form.72,88,119 In essence, the formation of such complexes
weakens Cu-framework interactions and enhances Cu ion mobility.
A reasonable speculation based on the kinetic results is that
dimeric Cu-ion centers form from these mobile monomers via
dehydration, condensation or coupling in the presence of O2.
Possible reactions can be written as follows:
2[Cu(OH)(NH3)x]+ " [(NH3)xCu–O–Cu(NH3)x]2+ + H2O
(14)
2[CuI(NH3)2]+ + O2 " [(NH3)2CuII–(m–O2)–CuII(NH3)2]2+
(15)
It should be emphasized that the existence of such Cu-dimer
complexes has not been confirmed spectroscopically. However,
no spectroscopic method is more sensitive to the dynamic
transformations of active centers than reactants themselves;
and reaction kinetics are only consistent with their existence. Yet,
another piece of indirect evidence comes from the dramatic
change in reaction rate dependence on Cu loading with tempera-
ture (Fig. 19). This is rationalized by the fact that at high temp-
eratures of B350 1C and above these Cu-dimer complexes become
unstable (by losing extra-framework ligands) and split into Cu ion
monomers. In this case, Cu ion monomers become the cata-
lytically active centers. Even from these new kinetic results it is
unfortunately still not possible to precisely determine a detailed
NH3 oxidation mechanism (i.e., whether it follows a N2H4 route or
a two-step SCR-like route). The identification of a dimeric Cu-ion
center at lower temperatures clearly makes a NH2(ads) coupling
route possible since each NH2(ads) can occupy one Cu atom of a
dimeric center prior to reaction. On the other hand, extra lattice
oxygen (ELO) in these dimeric centers is expected to catalyze NH3
oxidation to NO more readily. At 350 1C and above, however,
NH2(ads) coupling appears to be unlikely since monomeric Cu
ions are the catalytic centers.
Fig. 20 presents a direct comparison between Cu– and Fe–SSZ-13
in NH3 oxidation using samples with Cu/Al = Fe/Al = 0.2 synthesized
from the same batch of SSZ-13 substrates (Si/Al = 12).141 For
the Cu–SSZ-13 sample, the largely invariant NH3 conversions
between 300 and 400 1C reinforce the notion on transformation
of Cu ion centers in this temperature range discussed above.
The Fe–SSZ-13 sample, despite the fact that it contains B40%
dimeric Fe sites even when fully hydrated and is apparently
highly active in NO oxidation (Fig. 2),65 is completely inert in
catalyzing NH3 oxidation below B300 1C. This can be under-
stood from ‘‘NH3 inhibition’’ of Fe sites that is generally found
for Fe-zeolite-based SCR catalysts.167–171
4.3.
Standard NH3-SCR
4.3.1.
Mechanistic considerations. Reaction mechanisms
for standard NH3-SCR have been extensively studied, yet no
general consensus has been reached.2–8 As described above, the
key points of disagreement in the NH3-SCR mechanism are the
Fig. 19
(a) NH3 oxidation rates at 250 and 300 1C shown in Fig. 4 plotted
as a function of the square of the Cu loading. (b) NH3 oxidation rates at 350
and 400 1C shown in Fig. 4 plotted as a function of the Cu loading.
Adapted with permission from (F. Gao, et al., J. Catal., 2014, 319, 1–14).
Fig. 20
NH3 conversions as a function of temperature during NH3 oxidation
on freshly prepared Cu/ and Fe/SSZ-13 samples at Si/Al = 12 and Cu/Al =
Fe/Al = 0.2. Reactant feed contains 350 ppm NH3, 14% O2, 2.5% H2O
balanced with N2 at a GHSV of 200 000 h1. Adapted with permission from
(F. Gao, et al., Catal. Today, 2015, in press).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
following: (1) whether the catalytically relevant Cu/Fe species
are monomeric or dimeric (even, perhaps very small oligomeric
clusters). (2) Whether NO2 plays a significant role in the
mechanism. (3) Whether redox cycling of the catalytic centers
is involved. (4) Whether both Cu/Fe ion sites and Brønsted acid
sites collectively provide the catalytic functionality. Depending
on whether NO is activated, the reaction can be described to
follow an Eley–Rideal (E–R) or a Langmuir–Hinshelwood (L–H)
mechanism where in the former, weakly-bound NO reacts with
chemisorbed NH3 to form intermediates that decompose to N2
while in the latter, NO is required to transform into strongly
bound species (e.g., NO2, nitrite or nitrate moieties) prior to
reaction with ammonia. However, a reaction ratio of NH3/NO =
1/1 and an oxidation state mismatch of N atoms in the reactants
(i.e., 3 in NH3 and +2 in NO) require that the E–R reaction
must be accompanied by the reduction of the active centers.
Continuous turnover requires that the reduced active centers be
oxidized by O2. In other words, an E–R mechanism must be
coupled with redox steps of the catalytic centers. For the L–H
mechanism, redox steps of the catalytic centers are also required;
however in this case, catalytic center reduction is accompanied
by NO activation. Most of the mechanistic proposals from the
literature are reasonable in certain respects. Because of the
intrinsic complexity of standard NH3-SCR described above, it is
not unlikely that multiple reaction pathways coexist and their
relative significance varies as a function of reaction conditions and
catalysts used. However, simultaneous multiple bond cleavage/
formation from reactive species on different sites must be
considered unlikely in proposing a possible mechanism.
Fig. 21 presents a rather general standard SCR mechanism
for metal-exchanged zeolite catalysts proposed by Iwasaki, based
on a similar one proposed for V2O5-based catalysts.172 This is a
typical L–H mechanism coupled with redox of catalytic centers
which assumes that (1) reactive ammonia is in the form of NH4
+;
(2) reactive NOx is in the form of NO2(ads), formed by NO
oxidation by ELO and (3) a dual-site intermediate decomposes
to generate N2. Such a proposal immediately raises debates, e.g.,
(1) Why molecular NH3 is not chosen as the reactive form of
ammonia? (2) Why NO has to be oxidized to NO2(ads)? And
(3) why a dual-site instead of a mono-site intermediate that leads
to the formation of N2? In the following these arguments will be
addressed to show that such a mechanism is hardly applicable
for Cu–CHA catalysts. More plausible ones will be given based on
most recent studies.
For Cu–CHA catalysts, Korhonen et al. used operando UV-Vis
spectroscopy to first state (without supportive reaction kinetics) that
isolated Cu2+ ions are the active sites for NH3-SCR.173 Recently,
Bates et al. discovered a linear correlation between standard SCR
rates and ex situ UV-Vis-NIR intensities of hydrated Cu(II) d–d
transition of their hydrated samples (Si/Al = 4.5); the results are
shown in Fig. 22.78 It has also been reported repeatedly that at low
to intermediate Cu loadings, isolated Cu2+ ions in dehydrated
samples are located in the faces of the 6R.7,8,51,53,60,79,102,156,174
It has become rather clear now, therefore, that those isolated
Cu2+ ions, which stay as Cu2+ aqua complexes in fully hydrated
samples and ‘‘naked’’ ions near faces of the 6R in fully dehydrated
samples, are active under SCR reaction conditions. Their nature
and location during the reaction, however, are not clear due to
the limited knowledge thus far learned from in situ/in operando
spectroscopic studies. Again, as discussed above, no spectro-
scopic method is expected to be more sensitive than the reactants
towards dynamics of the active centers under reaction conditions;
at the current stage, kinetics on well-defined catalysts under
artifact-free conditions is perhaps the best way to elucidate the
nature of active sites under reaction conditions. Nevertheless,
in situ/in operando spectroscopic studies do reveal two significant
findings for elucidating reaction mechanisms. First, in operando
X-ray absorption studies reported by Ribeiro and coworkers reveal
the coexistence of Cu2+ and Cu+ under standard SCR condi-
tions.52,80,174 This demonstrates that the redox of active centers
Fig. 21
Schematic representation of the catalytic cycle for standard SCR
reaction over metal-exchanged zeolite catalysts. Acid sites are associated with
Lewis or Brønsted sites at ion-exchanged metal or free proton sites. Redox
sites are associated with oxo-metal (isolated or binuclear) ion-exchanged
sites. Adapted with permission from (M. Iwasaki, in Urea–SCR Technology
for deNOx After Treatment of Diesel Exhausts, ed. I. Nova and E. Tronconi,
Springer, New York, 2014, ch. 8, pp. 221–246).
Fig. 22
The correlation of standard SCR rate with the UV-Vis-NIR intensity
of hydrated Cu(II) d–d transition in air at room temperature for the Cu–SSZ-13
samples. The standard SCR conditions used were 320 ppm NO, 320 ppm NH3,
10% O2, 8% CO2, 6%H2O, and balance Helium at 473 K. Adapted with
permission from (S. A. Bates, et al., J. Catal., 2014, 312, 87–97).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
is indeed part of the reaction mechanisms. Second, by con-
ducting NO/O2 titration of adsorbed NH3 monitored with FTIR,
numerous groups realize that molecular NH3 adsorbed on Cu
ion sites is substantially more reactive than NH4
+.88,175,176 From
this standpoint, NH4
+ should contribute little to SCR.
Whether isolated Cu ions are active centers or not can be
probed by kinetic measurements using catalysts with various
Cu loadings. In the absence of artifacts (i.e., mass and heat
transfer limitations), a linear correlation between the reaction
rate and Cu content (or invariant turnover frequencies) may be
viewed as a proof for isolated Cu ions being the active sites for
standard SCR. Gao et al. performed such measurements using
Cu–SSZ-13 samples with a wide range of Cu/Al ratios. Fig. 23
presents normalized reaction rates (corrected assuming the first-
order reaction) as a function of temperature.152 This graph reveals
three distinct kinetic regimes for samples with Cu/Al r 0.11: two
normal regimes (r250 1C and Z350 1C) where reaction rates
increase with increasing temperature, and an abnormal regime in
between where reaction rates decrease with increasing tempera-
ture. In the high-temperature regime, the invariant TOFs as a
function of Cu loading at differential NO conversions displayed in
Fig. 24 unambiguously confirm that isolated Cu ions are indeed
the active centers. At such high temperatures, these active centers
are not expected to be solvated and their most probable locations
are the faces of the 6R. Note that the reaction in this regime is
characterized with a rather high reaction activation energy of
B140 kJ mol1. In the low-temperature regime, Arrhenius plots
are displayed in Fig. 25(a) using the following equation (assuming
first-order kinetics):
k ¼
r
½NO0
¼ Ae Ea
RT
(16)
In this case, a high degree of complexity as a function of
Cu loading is revealed where pre-exponential factors increase
orders of magnitude and apparent activation energies increase
from B40 to B80 kJ mol1 as Cu loading rises. Clearly these
kinetic variations cannot be justified by assuming a single type
of active center at a defined location. Rather, it can be envi-
sioned that Cu ions are suﬃciently solvated and mobile at such
low temperatures so that transient transformations (e.g., rever-
sible hydrolysis or dimerization of monomers) of Cu-ions are
possible and Cu-ions in various forms may contribute to SCR.
From the normalized rates and TOFs at a reaction temperature
of 185 1C as a function of Cu loading shown in Fig. 25(b), the
Koros–Nowak criterion can reasonably be considered as obeyed
at intermediate Cu loadings (0.044 r Cu/Al r 0.29). In this case,
it is reasonable to suggest that SCR is carried out on monomeric
Cu-ion active centers, a conclusion also reached by Bates et al.78
Yet, again, the solvation effects and a basic environment created
by stored H2O/NH3 make the precise nature of these active
centers undetermined. At very low Cu loadings (Cu/Al o 0.044),
a linear correlation between SCR rates and square of Cu loadings
suggests, similar to NH3 oxidation at relatively low temperatures
(Fig. 19(a)), that the reaction is carried out on dimeric Cu-ion
centers.152 This can be rationalized such that at exceedingly low
Cu loadings, either NO activation or Cu-ion monomer redox
barriers are formidable so that SCR cannot be catalyzed by a
Cu-ion monomer. Reaction kinetics indicate that either by form-
ing transient Cu-ion dimers, or by increasing Cu loading to lower
redox barriers SCR could proceed. Without detailed knowledge
on rate-limiting step(s), such explanations can only be judged
as tentative. It is clear, however, from the abnormal kinetic
regime shown in Fig. 23 that the low-temperature active sites
‘‘deactivate’’ with increasing temperature from B250 to B350 1C.
This is explained such that as the temperature rises, these sites
lose extra-framework ligands and migrate to their most stable
locations (i.e., faces of the 6R) in their dehydrated form, a process
that causes their redox barriers to rise. In essence, this abnormal
kinetic behavior provides strong evidence to suggest that the
Fig. 23
Standard SCR rates as a function of temperature for Cu/SSZ-13
samples with various Cu-loadings. Reactant feed contains 350 ppm NO,
350 ppm NH3, 14% O2, 2.5% H2O balanced with N2 at a GHSV of 400000 h1.
Diﬀerent symbols represent samples with diﬀerent Cu loadings. The dashed
horizontal line represents NO and NH3 conversions of 20%. Adapted with
permission from (F. Gao, et al., J. Catal., 2014, 319, 1–14).
Fig. 24
Turnover frequencies (TOFs, mol NO mol Cu1 s1) versus Cu
loading in the form of Arrhenius plots in the high-temperature kinetic regime
for the three lowest Cu loading samples. Reactant feed contains 350 ppm
NO, 350 ppm NH3, 14% O2, 2.5% H2O balanced with N2 at a GHSV of
1 200 000 h1. Adapted with permission from (F. Gao, et al., J. Catal., 2014,
319, 1–14).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
low- and high-temperature active monomeric sites are different
in their chemical environments. Since it is rather certain that
the high-temperature active Cu-ion monomers are located
at faces of the 6R, a logical conclusion therefore is that the
low-temperature active monomers are not located in the same
position in contrast to many suggestions.
The assignment of Cu-ion monomers as standard SCR active
sites casts doubt on a dual-site intermediate mechanism shown
in Fig. 21 since an expected dual-site intermediate in this case
is constructed by an NH3 adsorbed on a Brønsted acid site (as
NH4
+) and a NOx species adsorbed on a Cu site. However, this is
against the most recent findings that NH3 adsorbed on Cu ion
sites is substantially more reactive than NH4
+.88,175,176 For a
single-site intermediate, the most likely Cu-containing complexes
that decompose directly (and stoichiometrically) to N2 and H2O
should have one N atom from NH3 and one N atom from NOx.
Meanwhile, the H:O ratio in such a complex should be 2:1. From
these considerations, a nitrosoamide-like complex (NO–Cu–NH2)
or an ammonium nitrite-like complex (NO2–Cu–NH4 or HNO2–Cu–
NH3) appears to be the most probable.8,9 Formation of the former
can be considered to follow either an E–R or an L–H mechanism
while the latter has to be L–H since NO is oxidized. Very recently,
Paolucci et al. proposed a standard SCR mechanism in which a
nitrosoamide-like complex is involved in the reducing half-cycle
and an ammonium nitrite-like complex is involved in the oxidizing
half-cycle of a turnover (Fig. 26).80 This study assumes a naked
Cu2+ monomer located in faces of the 6R with two Al T sites as the
active center. As discussed above, this is most likely the case for the
high-temperature kinetic regime but not necessarily true at low
reaction temperatures. Also this model utilizes NH4
+ as a key
reactant species in the oxidizing half-cycle. Other studies suggest
that NH4
+ may not be a very reactive species.88,175,176
Still, a central point of disagreement among various mecha-
nistic models is how NO is activated, and whether NO2 forma-
tion is indeed important and even a rate-limiting step for
standard SCR. NO2 formation has long been suggested to be a
key step in standard SCR and the apparent discrepancy between
NO oxidation and standard SCR rates catalyzed by Cu-zeolites
(i.e., SCR proceeds much faster than NO oxidation) has long
been suggested to be due to a self-poisoning eﬀect by NO2,ads that
only applies to NO oxidation.5 As discussed in the NO oxidation
section above, NO2 inhibition to NO oxidation indeed occurs
and appears to be more severe on Cu-zeolites than Fe-zeolites.157
Fig. 25
(a) Arrhenius plots for standard SCR in the low-temperature regime (o200 1C) on samples with diﬀerent Cu loadings. Rate constants (k) were
calculated using the first-order kinetic equation shown in the main text using data taken from Fig. 22. (b) SCR rates (upper panels) and SCR turnover
frequencies (lower panels) as a function of Cu loading in the low temperature kinetic regime at 185 1C. Adapted with permission from (F. Gao, et al.,
J. Catal., 2014, 319, 1–14).
Fig. 26
Proposed SCR cycle over Cu–SSZ-13 at 473 K. The dotted line
separates oxidized Cu (top) from reduced (bottom) halves of the redox
cycle. Adapted with permission from (C. Paolucci, et al., Angew. Chem., Int.
Ed., 2014, 53, 11828–11833)
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Yet, a clear mechanism for NO oxidation to NO2,ads catalyzed by
isolated Cu ions is not known. Theoretical calculations find
that naked Cu+ and Cu2+ ions in faces of the 6R bind weakly or
not at all to O2, an essential step in NO oxidation to NO2.80,174
Because of the need to activate O2, it is conceivable that only Cu/Fe
ion dimers or clusters catalyze NO oxidation to NO2.95,152,177
Overall, one of the following two scenarios may be considered to
understand NO activation in standard SCR catalyzed by Cu-
zeolites. First, NO oxidation to NO2,ads may be needed but this
is not the rate-limiting step. Second, this chemistry is not even
correlated with standard SCR; NO is activated to form other than
NO2,ads. These new thoughts have appeared in recent publica-
tions and are receiving more support.8,153–155 For example, H2O is
known to greatly inhibit gaseous NO2 formation during NO
oxidation. As such, it should also inhibit the formation of
NO2,ads. However, while H2O mildly inhibits standard SCR over
Fe-zeolites,65 it has no inhibition effect at all to Cu-zeolites.154
The discussions above necessitate the following questions:
(1) What is the real rate-limiting step for standard SCR cata-
lyzed by isolated Cu ions? (2) How is NO activated prior to the
formation of intermediates that decompose to N2? The answer to
the first question is not known, but a few candidates are likely,
these include Cu2+/Cu+ redox, N–H bond cleavage to generate
NH2(ads), nitrosoamide–ammonium nitrite complex formation,
or the formation of a nitrite species that leads to formation of
such complexes. From the kinetic data shown in Fig. 23–25, the
existence of multiple kinetic regimes and the variation of
activation energies with temperature and Cu loading all indicate
that this question may not have an easy answer. Clearly more
work is needed, especially theoretical work that is more relevant
to realistic reaction conditions.
For the formation of NH4NO2 without involving question-
able NH4
+ and NO2,ads as discussed above, the most likely route
is an acid–base reaction between NH3 and HNO2:
NH3 + HNO2 = NH4NO2 = N2 + 2H2O
(17)
In other words, NO oxidation to HNO2 without a NO2,ads inter-
mediate is perhaps a key to SCR catalyzed by isolated Cu ions.
Moreover, the N atom in HNO2 has the right oxidation state (+3)
so that charge-transfer between the nitrite complex and the Cu
active center becomes unnecessary during its decomposition to
form N2. This should necessarily lower the energy barrier of the
overall reaction. Two possible reaction pathways, both involving
direct charge-transfer between Cu2+ and NO, can realize this
chemistry:
Cu2+ + NO = Cu+–NO+
(18)
NO+ + H2O = H+ + HNO2
(19)
[Cu(OH)]+ + NO = Cu+ + HNO2
(20)
Recently Szanyi et al. reported on the formation of NO+ species
during NO chemisorption on Cu–SSZ-13 using FTIR.178 By
applying 15N solid-state MAS-NMR, the formation of a Cu+NO+
complex was further confirmed.155 It is possible that upon its
formation, NO+ can migrate to extra-framework cationic sites to
balance negative framework charges.179 In any case, it is readily
conceivable that this species can interact with H2O to generate
HNO2 (eqn (19)); this chemistry can then be followed by ammonia
nitrite formation and decomposition to N2. (eqn (17)). Based on
this, Kwak et al. proposed a rather simple standard SCR mecha-
nism shown in Fig. 27.155 However, NO+ is only detected in the
absence of NH3.175 This leaves two possibilities under SCR
conditions: (1) NO+ is consumed immediately upon formation;
therefore, it is below the detection limit for FTIR; (2) it is not
involved in the presence of NH3. Again, due to this intrinsic
limitation of the FTIR technique, it is not yet possible to fully
confirm the proposal shown in Fig. 27. Likewise, interaction between
NO and a [Cu(OH)]+ site may also generate HNO2 (eqn (20)).
This chemistry equally allows one to propose a simple standard
SCR mechanism catalyzed by [Cu(OH)]+ that needs further
confirmation, for example from theoretical calculations.152
So far in this section, focus has been given on low Cu-loaded
Cu–CHA catalysts. Although, mobility and interconversion of active
sites under reaction conditions bring up certain complexities,
for the most part such catalysts can still be treated as simple
catalysts with homogeneous distribution of active sites. For
Fe–CHA, or more generally many types of Fe-zeolites, the situa-
tion can be much more complicated. For Fe–CHA we are still at
the earliest stage of learning. A direct comparison of perfor-
mance of Cu– and Fe–CHA appears to be a good starting point.
Fig. 28 displays such a study on samples with Si/Al = 12 and
Cu/Al = Fe/Al = 0.2. Both NO and NH3 conversions are plotted
so that SCR selectivities can be readily compared. For the
Cu–SSZ-13 catalyst, the light-off temperature is slightly below
200 1C and over the entire temperature ranges investigated here,
SCR selectivities are excellent (i.e., NO and NH3 conversions are
essentially equal at all temperatures). In contrast, Fe–SSZ-13
displays no activity below 200 1C and only becomes highly active
above B300 1C. To emphasize the key difference, the tempera-
ture at 50% NO conversion (T50) for Cu–SSZ-13 is B120 1C lower
than that for Fe–SSZ-13. The poor SCR activity for Fe–CHA at low
temperatures can be explained from NH3 inhibition,180,181 an
explanation also suitable for the NH3 oxidation reaction
(Fig. 20). It is also clear from Fig. 28 that, at 275 1C and above,
SCR selectivities on Fe–SSZ-13 are B90% in terms of NH3
Fig. 27
Proposed mechanism for the selective catalytic reduction of NO with
NH3 over Cu–SSZ-13 that involves an NO+ intermediate. Adapted with permis-
sion from (J. H. Kwak, et al., Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2013, 52, 9985–9989).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
conversion; that is, B10% NH3 overconsumption is evident.
This will be addressed in the next sub-section.
4.3.2.
Non-stoichiometry in standard NH3-SCR. Under steady-
state reaction conditions, the NO/NH3 conversion ratio is expected
to be maintained strictly at unity over a selective catalyst. However,
this is not always the case; NH3 (in certain cases NO) over-
consumption is frequently found and the causes can range
from trivial to rather complicated. One straightforward cause
for NH3 overconsumption is the so-called ‘‘non-selective NH3
oxidation’’ that has been described above. This typically occurs at
relatively high temperatures (B400 1C and above) for samples that
are very active in NH3 oxidation (e.g., high-Cu loaded samples and
samples after hydrothermal aging). Fig. 29(a) presents a typical
light-oﬀcurve on a Cu–SAPO-34 catalyst formed via a solid-state
ion exchange method using H–SAPO-34 and CuO.71 Because of
incomplete ion exchange, this catalyst contains both desired
isolated Cu2+ ions for SCR and undesired CuO particles that
catalyze NH3 oxidation. From this figure, the NO conversion drop
above B350 1C is due to a decrease in SCR selectivity, caused by
NH3 consumption via oxidation by O2. For catalysts with low to
intermediate Cu loadings, for example a Cu–SSZ-13 catalyst with
Si/Al = 6 and Cu/Al = 0.11, light-off curves shown in Fig. 29(b)
reveal an opposite situation where slight NO overconsumption is
realized at temperature intervals between 200300 and above
B400 1C. Note that this behavior only occurs under SCR con-
ditions (i.e., this catalyst is incapable of catalyzing NO decom-
position without the presence of NH3); and this is due to the
participation of NO during Cu+ oxidation. For example for
isolated Cu+ ions, the following reaction can account for NO
overconsumption:152,182
4Cuþ þ NO þ 1
2O2 þ 4Hþ ¼ 4Cu2þ þ 1
2N2 þ 2H2O
(21)
For (transient) Cu-dimers, the reaction may even occur as
follows:
[CuI  CuI]2+ + 2NO = [CuII(m-O2)CuII]2+ + N2
(22)
Although these two reactions account for NO overconsumption,
these are clearly not elementary. More details of their mecha-
nisms are not known; however, NO overconsumption greatly
supports redox of Cu ions being an essential component of
standard SCR.
For Fe–CHA, reaction results shown in Fig. 28 reveal another
type of NH3 overconsumption, that is, it occurs at temperatures
(e.g., 250300 1C) at which direct NH3 oxidation by O2 does not
appear to be likely (Fig. 20). This phenomenon is quite com-
mon among Fe-zeolites.183–186 Using isotope labelled reactants,
Nedyalkova et al. proposed the existence of an unusual NH3
oxidation pathway to NO under SCR conditions that account for
NH3 overconsumption.187 Since Fe-zeolites are typically much
more active in NO oxidation to NO2, this chemistry could also
Fig. 28
NO/NH3 conversions as a function of temperature during stan-
dard SCR for the fresh Cu- and Fe/SSZ-13 samples. Reactant feed contains
350 ppm NO, 350 ppm NH3, 14% O2, 2.5% H2O balanced with N2 at a
GHSV of 200 000 h1. Adapted with permission from (F. Gao, et al., Catal.
Today, 2015, in press).
Fig. 29
(a) NOx and NH3 conversion as a function of temperature on a Cu/SAPO-34 sample formed by solid state ion exchange. Standard SCR reactant
feed contains 350 ppm NO, 350 ppm NH3, 14%O2, 2.5% H2O balanced with N2. GHSV = 100 000 h1. Adapted with permission from (F. Gao, et al., Appl.
Catal., B, 2015, 162, 501–514). (b) NOx and NH3 conversion as a function of temperature on a Cu/SSZ-13 sample at Si/Al = 6 and Cu/Al = 0.11. Standard
SCR reactant feed contains 350 ppm NO, 350 ppm NH3, 14%O2, 2.5% H2O balanced with N2. GHSV = 400 000 h1. Adapted with permission from (F. Gao,
et al., J. Catal., 2014, 319, 1–14).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
be rationalized by invoking a NO2-SCR pathway which will be
addressed further below.
4.3.3.
Roles of Brønsted acidity in standard NH3-SCR.
Brønsted acidity has an indispensable role in the formation of
an active Cu/Fe-ion exchanged zeolite catalyst, that is, it allows
atomic dispersion of Cu/Fe ions. Whether or not it plays signi-
ficant roles in the SCR reaction steps, is, however, heavily debated.
All reaction mechanisms that involve an NH4
+ intermediate favor
the argument that Brønsted acidity is important. For V2O5-based
SCR catalysts, reactive NH3 in the form of NH4
+ has been
frequently proposed.10,188,189 In explaining the beneficial eﬀects
of the low Si/Al ratio to SCR on zeolite-based SCR catalysts, Yang
and coworkers adapted the same argument and proposed that
this is because more NH4
+ species generate at lower Si/Al ratios
(i.e., more Brønsted acid sites).28,190 However, as discussed above,
recent titration experiments by studies on Cu–CHA catalysts
demonstrate that NH4
+ species are far less reactive toward NOx
than molecular NH3 adsorbed on Cu sites.88,175,176 Even if the
importance of NH4
+ species is ruled out, as long as redox of active
centers is part of the SCR mechanism, H+ is still indispensable
during the Cu+/Fe2+ oxidation step to Cu2+/Fe3+ by O2 when the
active centers are monomers. Only for oligomeric active centers
can redox occur without the participation of H+. These two
processes are shown below:
4Mn+ + O2 + 4H+ = 4M(n+1)+ + 2H2O
(23)
2[Mn+  Mn+] + O2 = 2[M(n+1)+–O–M(n+1)+]
(24)
With regard to the contribution of Brønsted acidity to SCR rates,
it is useful to first consider the following power law model, where
a, b, and g represent the reaction orders for NO, NH3, and O2,
respectively:
R ¼ A exp Ea
RT


½NOa NH3
½
b O2
½
g
(25)
Studies by numerous groups agree in general that at relatively
low temperatures (e.g., o300 1C), a E 1, b E 0 and g E 0.5 over
Cu–CHA catalysts.53,78 Since under typical SCR reaction condi-
tions, O2 concentration is in much surplus in comparison to
both NO and NH3, the power-law equation can be simplified as:
R ¼ A exp Ea
RT


½NO
(26)
From eqn (26), were there any effects for Brønsted acidity to
SCR rates, one expects that either the pre-exponential factor A,
or apparent activation energy Ea, or both, varies with H+ con-
centration. For Cu–SAPO-34 catalysts, Brønsted acid site density
can be systemically varied during the SAPO-34 synthesis step,
for example by varying Si content or SDAs.59,61,191,192 At rela-
tively low Cu loadings, catalysts can be prepared with sufficient
differences in Brønsted acid site density. By using such cata-
lysts, Yu et al. discovered that SCR rates increase with increas-
ing H+ density, yet reaction apparent activation energies do not
appear to vary.176 For Cu–SSZ-13 catalysts, H+ density can
similarly be varied by varying Si/Al ratios of the catalysts. Gao
et al. studied low-temperature SCR on low Cu-loaded Cu–SSZ-13
catalysts and results shown in Fig. 30 support the beneficial
role of H+ density in SCR rates.193
Overall, from the most recent kinetic results on Cu–CHA
shown above, and from previous studies on other zeolite catalysts,
it appears that a rather general conclusion can be made regarding
the role of acidity as pointed out by a few groups, that acidity
favors the reaction without being an essential ingredient of the
active site and hence the reaction mechanism.194,195 Simply put,
higher acidity increases NH3 concentration near active sites. From
the power-law eqn (25) and (26) shown above, the beneficial role
from acidity can be rationalized as caused by an increase in expo-
nential factors. From a very recent study reported by Giordanino
et al., NH4
+nNH3 complexes form during NH3 adsorption on
Cu–SSZ-13 and maintain up to B300 1C.119 Therefore, despite
the low reactivity of NH4
+, it still benefits SCR by attracting
more weakly bound NH3 species.
4.4.
Fast and NO2-SCR: the roles of NO2
It is of vital importance to recognize two key points for SCR pro-
cesses involving NO2 from the gas phase. First, as the average
oxidation state for N in NOx reaches +3 (i.e., NO2/NOx = 1/2), NO
activation via redox of the Cu/Fe centers is no longer needed.
Indeed, operando XAS measurements under fast and NO2-SCR
conditions reveal, in contrast to standard SCR, that Cu ions
permanently stay as Cu2+.174 Second, as the reaction temperatures
become suﬃciently high (e.g., above B350 1C), these reactions
proceed rapidly enough within the zeolite framework so that even
the presence of Cu/Fe centers becomes unnecessary.5,196 Fig. 31
presents a direct comparison among Cu–, H– and Na–SSZ-13 in
fast SCR. Clearly, the presence of Cu2+ is vital to NOx conversions
below B300 1C. At higher temperatures, contribution from
Cu2+ becomes less significant yet the presence of acidity is still
key to high NOx conversions. These results are, in general,
consistent with results obtained from other zeolite catalysts.5
Therefore, we can state that fast and NO2-SCR reactions are less
Fig. 30
Arrhenius plots of NH3-SCR on three Cu/SSZ-13 catalysts that
display similar overall catalytic performance: (’) Si/Al = 6, Cu/Al = 0.044;
(K) Si/Al = 12, Cu/Al = 0.13; (m) Si/Al = 35, Cu/Al = 0.31. Reactant feed
contains 350 ppm NO, 350 ppm NH3, 14% O2, 2.5% H2O balanced with N2
at a GHSV of 400 000 h1 (F. Gao, et al., unpublished work).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
sensitive to the type of zeolites and to the nature of cationic
sites; as long as the residence time of reactants is sufficiently
long, high conversions can be achieved.
Mechanistically, the absence of Cu/Fe ion redox for NO activa-
tion, as well as the need to generate NOx intermediates with a
proper N oxidation state of +3 make the following reactions
highly likely:
NO + NO2 = N2O3
(27)
N2O3 + H2O = 2HNO2
(28)
The formation of HNO2 is thereafter readily followed by the
formation of NH4NO2 that decomposes to N2 and H2O. Such a
fast SCR mechanism has been suggested some time ago based
on studies with Fe–ZSM-5.183,197 It appears that it can be readily
adapted for the CHA-based catalysts. It is still not clear whether
reaction (27) is carried out in the gas phase, or it is facilitated by
the presence of Cu/Fe ions. This uncertainty comes from the
possibility that Cu/Fe ions can otherwise promote fast SCR by
providing chemisorbed NH3. The promotion role for acidity can
certainly be attributed to the enhancement of residence time
for NH3.
The main side reaction for fast SCR is NO2-SCR, sometimes
referred to as ‘‘slow’’ SCR.8 The key component that makes this
reaction ‘‘slow’’ is NH4NO3, an intermediate that is much more
stable than NH4NO2. According to studies reported by Tronconi
and coworkers,198,199 NH4NO3 forms from interaction between
NH3 and HNO3, the latter is generated via NO2 disproportionation:
6NO2 + 3H2O = 3HNO2 + 3HNO3
(29)
HNO3 + NH3 = NH4NO3
(30)
NH4NO3 can participate in continuous SCR steps to generate
N2 via the following global pathways:198–200
3NH4NO3 + 2NH3 = 4N2 + 9H2O
(31)
NH4NO3 + 2NO + 2NH3 = 2N2 + 5H2O
(32)
The precise elementary reaction steps for these reactions are
not clear. It is obvious, however, that these reactions must occur
at temperatures where NH4NO3 becomes thermally unstable.
In this sense, it is expected that CHA-based catalysts are not
particularly eﬃcient fast or/and NO2-SCR catalysts since the small
pore openings are more readily blocked by NH4NO3 deposition.
Another key feature for NO2-SCR is N2O generation via NH4NO3
decomposition:
NH4NO3 = N2O + 2H2O
(33)
This side reaction has been extensively addressed elsewhere5
and will not be further discussed.
5. Catalyst stability
One of the primary reasons that Cu–SSZ-13 and Cu–SAPO-34
are chosen commercially as SCR catalysts is their hydrothermal
stabilities. There exist a few commonly known reasons to partially
interpret their unique stabilities. For example, a Si/Al of B15 for
the current generation of Cu–SSZ-13 can be understood from the
fact that higher Si/Al ratio zeolites typically have better stabilities;
Cu–SAPO-34 has been chosen since silicoaluminophosphate mole-
cular sieves are typically more refractory than zeolites, etc. However,
the most important factor appears to be their small pore
openings.36 Table 1 presents SCR performance (NOx conversion
and N2O yield, both at 250 1C) for a wide range of fresh and
hydrothermally aged (700 1C/24 h or 900 1C/1 h in a flow of
4.5% H2O/air mixture) catalysts investigated by researchers at
Johnson-Matthey.36,42 It is clearly seen that all catalysts with
largest pores as 8-membered rings display better hydrothermal
stabilities than materials with 10- or 12-membered rings.
The fundamentals behind this dramatic difference are not
entirely known. One certainly cannot argue that pore opening
is the only parameter that plays a role here; for example,
the hydrothermally more stable beta has larger pore openings
than ZSM-5.
Fig. 31
Light-oﬀcurves in fast SCR on Cu/, H/ and Na/SSZ-13 at Si/Al = 6.
Reactant feed contains 175 ppm NO, 175 ppm NO2, 350 ppm NH3, 14% O2,
2.5% H2O balanced with N2 at a GHSV of 800 000 h1 (F. Gao, et al.,
unpublished work).
Table 1
Examples of zeolite supported Cu SCR catalysts and their NOx
conversion and N2O yields at 250 1C. Adapted with permission from
(H. Y. Chen, in Urea-SCR Technology for deNOx After Treatment of Diesel
Exhausts, ed. I. Nova and E. Tronconi, Springer Science and Business
Media, New York, 2014, ch. 5, pp. 123–147)
Catalysts
Zeolite
structure
NOx conversion
at 250 1C (%)
N2O yield
at 250 1C
(ppm)
Cu/beta (fresh)
BEA (12-ring)
98
17
Cu/ZSM-5 (fresh)
MFI (10-ring)
98
7
Cu/SAPO-34 (fresh)
CHA (8-ring)
95
1
Cu/Nu-3 (fresh)
LEV (8-ring)
97
1
Cu/beta (750 1C/24 h)
BEA (12-ring)
69
16
Cu/SAPO-34 (750 1C/24 h)
CHA (8-ring)
99
3
Cu/SSZ-13 (750 1C/24 h)
CHA (8-ring)
99
7
Cu/ZSM-34 (750 1C/24 h)
ER1 (8-ring)
98
3
Cu/beta (900 1C/1 h)
BEA (12-ring)
58
22
Cu/ZSM-5 (900 1C/1 h)
MFI (10-ring)
28
0
Cu/SAPO-34 (900 1C/1 h)
CHA (8-ring)
97
2
Cu/Nu-3 (900 1C/1 h)
LEV (8-ring)
98
4
Cu/SSZ-13 (900 1C/1 h)
CHA (8-ring)
99
7
Cu/sigma-1 (900 1C/1 h)
DDR (8-ring)
85
4
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
For Cu–SSZ-13, some of the earliest studies suggested that
these materials do not even dealuminate.50,201 This is somewhat
misleading. These materials do dealuminate, albeit under more
severe aging conditions as compared to other Cu-zeolites. Lobo
and coworkers speculated that during hydrothermal aging, the
detached Al(OH)3, owning to its relatively large kinetic diameter,
cannot exit the pores of the framework and Al may even reattach
back to the framework.49 The extent of dealumination is readily
probed with solid-state 27Al NMR. Fig. 32 presents spectra of a
fresh and a hydrothermally aged (HTA) Cu–SSZ-13 sample (Si/Al =
12, Cu/Al = 0.2) where dealumination is manifested by the decrease
in the tetrahedral Al signal at B60 ppm. However, the detached
Al cannot be detected, a phenomenon common for Cu-zeolites,
probably due to the presence of paramagnetic Cu species.201,202
Recently, Vennestrøm et al. applied EXAFS to study the nature
of the species formed during Cu-zeolite aging. They suggested
irreversible formation of catalytically inactive and stable Cu–Al
clusters, which have some resemblance to CuAl2O4.202 For
Cu–SAPO-34 catalysts, the formation of similar moieties during
aging is also expected.71
Since dealumination is initiated from –Si–O(H)–Al– hydrolysis,
one might expect that high Cu/Al ratio materials (i.e., materials
with minimal residual Brønsted acidity) have the highest hydro-
thermal stabilities. This is not the case; numerous studies on
Cu–CHA formed using various methods (solution ion exchange,
one-pot synthesis and solid-state ion exchange) reveal that sam-
ples with intermediate Cu/Al ratios display the highest hydro-
thermal stabilities.66,69,71,203 It is now generally agreed that at
high Cu loadings, the CuOx clusters generated during high-
temperature aging aggressively destroy the zeolite structure.131
In this sense, using certain co-cations to decrease Brønsted
acidity of intermediate Cu/Al ratio catalysts may be considered
to further improve hydrothermal stabilities.
For use under practical conditions, hydrocarbons and S
(fuel-derived contaminants), P and Zn (derived from lubricating
oil additives), Ca and Mg (originating from detergent additives),
and Pt (derived from the Diesel Oxidation Catalyst) also poison
Cu–CHA catalysts.77 In general, regeneration from such con-
taminations appears to be relatively simple. The details in these
aspects are not included in this review. Excellent summaries
can be found elsewhere.36 For the much less studied Fe–CHA,
more details of their hydrothermal stabilities are not given at
this time.
6. Challenges in automotive exhaust
control catalysis
Besides the fundamental and practical issues with respect to the
current CHA catalysts discussed in this review, there are a few
other general areas which are impacting the practical imple-
mentation of the NH3-SCR technology for vehicle emission control
that we briefly discuss here. These relate to the overall emission
control system currently being commercialized, as well as con-
tinued suitability of the NH3-SCR technology with respect to some
new internal combustion engine (ICE) operational strategies
currently under development to meet future vehicle fuel eﬃciency
regulations. In particular, in this closing section we discuss
issues with overall emission control system size and weight,
NH3 delivery, and limitations on the low-temperature perfor-
mance of the current CHA-based NH3-SCR catalysts. Many of
these issues are discussed in more detail elsewhere204 so are
only briefly described here.
6.1.
Combined SCR–DPF systems
A recently (model year 2011) commercialized emission control
system for the Ford Super Duty diesel pickup truck is shown in
Fig. 33. As can be seen, this is a large and complicated system
Fig. 32
Solid state 27Al-NMR spectra of the fresh and hydrothermally
aged (HTA) Cu/SSZ-13 samples at Si/Al = 12 and Cu/Al = 0.2. The spectra
are catalyst mass and scan number normalized. Aging was performed at
800 1C for 16 h by flowing through air containing 10% of H2O. Adapted
with permission from (F. Gao, et al., Catal. Today, 2015, in press).
Fig. 33
Layout of a Ford DOC–SCR–DPF system.
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
that includes a precious-metal based diesel oxidation catalyst
(DOC), a urea injection system (diesel emission fluid (DEF)
injector), the CHA-zeolite based NH3-SCR catalyst (note that
this is contained on two cordierite monolith substrates), and a
diesel particulate filter (DPF). Besides a number of gas sensors,
other commercialized systems often also contain an ammonia
slip catalyst (ASC) to prevent the emissions of unreacted NH3. The
size and weight of these complex systems causes diﬃculties for
the vehicle manufacturers with weight reducing fuel eﬃciency
and the large system size taking up limited ‘real estate’ needed
for many other components on today’s modern vehicles.
One desirable solution to the size and weight issues is to
combine some of the functions carried out by the various
emission system components, and a combined SCR–DPF has
been of particular interest. The DPF is composed of a porous
material that allows the exhaust to flow through while trapping
the small, ash and carbonaceous-based soot particulates. Instead
of coating the NH3-SCR catalyst on a separate substrate, it is
incorporated into the porous DPF material for the combined
SCR–DPF system.205
A number of issues with such a combined system are clearly
evident and are the subject of considerable current research. For
example, the NH3-SCR catalyst will aﬀect the filtering properties of
the DPF substrate and care must be taken to minimize detri-
mental back pressure caused by the catalyst coating while still
insuring suﬃcient NOx reduction performance. In part, this also
means determining possible negative eﬀects of the captured soot
and ash on reactivity. Furthermore, DPFs need to be periodically
regenerated via soot oxidation and this can often lead to locally
high temperatures as the soot is combusted. As discussed earlier
in this review, the hydrothermal stability of metal-exchanged CHA
zeolites is particularly helpful in this regard. With respect to
maintaining suﬃcient NH3-SCR catalyst performance while also
minimizing the amount of the catalyst coating on the filter
substrate, the use of small particle or mesoporous206,207 zeolites
potentially oﬀers some advantage. In particular, typical zeolite
particle sizes that are close to 1 micron or more limit the number
of reactive sites available during normal operation because the
diﬀusion to the interior of these fairly large particles can be
rate-limiting at exhaust flow rates. By using small particle or
mesoporous zeolites, it may be possible to reduce the amount
of the NH3-SCR catalyst coating while still maintaining high
NOx reduction performance.
6.2.
NH3 delivery
As illustrated in Fig. 33, current commercial NH3-SCR systems
provide NH3 via injection of a urea solution.208 Upon hydro-
lysis, the urea molecule can produce two molecules of NH3 for
the downstream SCR reaction with NOx on the zeolite catalyst.
Despite the commercial success of this approach for NH3 delivery,
there are several issues with urea solutions that motivate the
search for alternatives.209 These include incomplete decompo-
sition of urea that reduces eﬃciency and can lead to undesir-
able deposits that can poison the zeolite catalyst material, and
the fact that urea solutions may not be suitable for winter
weather in particularly cold climates because they will freeze.
Because carrying tanks of ammonia itself is not practical for
safety concerns, other chemical precursors for NH3 delivery are
being considered. Solutions of cyanuric acid (a possible decom-
position product of urea), and ammonium formate have shown
some promise but still have issues in cold winter climates. Solid
precursors, including ammonium carbamate, can mitigate the
issues with freezing of NH3 precursor solutions, but there
remain diﬃculties in reliably delivering reproducible amounts
of NH3 that, to date, have prevented commercialization.
Reliable and reproducible ammonia delivery is still a challenge
even for urea solutions, leading to low NOx reduction performance
or over-dosing of NH3 that results in NH3 ‘‘slip’’. Indeed, concerns
about NH3 slip frequently means that vehicle emission control
systems that use NH3-SCR will also incorporate a downstream
catalyst that can oxidize NH3 to N2. Insuﬃciently NH3 delivery,
especially at low temperatures, may limit the ‘‘light-oﬀ’’ tem-
peratures of the SCR catalyst. The latter issue is important for
current applications of the NH3-SCR technology, but also may
be an especially significant limitation for future vehicle NOx
emission control as discussed next.
6.3.
Low temperature performance for future engine emission
control
Looking to the future, highly novel operating modes for inter-
nal combustion engines (ICEs) are being researched in order to
meet the very stringent new demands for fuel eﬃciency (e.g.,
U.S. ‘‘CAFE’’ standards for average miles/gallon are scheduled
to increase dramatically over the next 10–15 years). These new
ICE engine operation modes, while highly fuel-efficient, result
in much lower exhaust temperatures than current engines; tem-
peratures so low that it is hard to imagine how the current
catalytic emission control technologies will be able to function.204
For example, while steady-state operation of the NOx reduction
technology at 150 1C may be required,204 current ‘‘light-off’’
temperatures for CHA-based zeolite catalysts are closer to
200 1C as illustrated in Fig. 34.210 Thus, both ‘evolutionary’
Fig. 34
Eﬀect of the Cu ion-exchange level on NO reduction to N2. Reaction
conditions: 350 ppm NO, 350 ppm NH3, 14% O2, 10% H2O, balance N2 at
200 000 h1 Adapted with permission from (J. H. Kwak, et al., Catal. Lett.,
2012, 142, 295–301).
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
(to address, for example, the above issues discussed earlier in
this section) and ‘revolutionary’ technology development chal-
lenges can be foreseen for the catalyst R&D community. Indeed,
the R&D community of catalytic vehicle emission control is now
at the earliest stages of a third era. Having achieved remarkable
success in developing the ‘‘three-way’’ catalytic converter (era one)
and ‘‘lean-NOx’’ reduction catalyst technologies (era two), the
community now faces this new daunting challenge of providing
new catalyst materials and processes that can effectively eliminate
emissions at these quite low (B150 1C) exhaust temperatures.
For NOx emission control at these low temperatures, it will
be especially important to further enhance our fundamental
understanding of the NH3-SCR reaction mechanism over metal-
exchanged zeolites, especially with respect to the intrinsic origins
of the low-temperature limitations of NOx reduction performance.
For example, while the oxidation of NO to NO2 seems to be
unlikely to be a factor for limiting low temperature NOx reduction
over Cu–CHA catalysts, the current uncertainties regarding the
mechanism as discussed above prevent a clear identification
of the research target for lowering the ‘‘light-off’’ temperature.
However, some potentially promising new results have recently
been reported.211 In particular, Fig. 35 shows evidence for ‘‘light-
off’’ under standard SCR reaction conditions at temperatures as
low as 151 1C. Still, it is clear that a major R&D effort will be
needed over at least the next 10 years to realize commercially
viable catalytic NOx reduction technologies that reliably operate
in this low temperature regime.
7. Concluding remarks
In a comparatively short period of time, Cu–CHA has been
introduced into practical applications as the most effective
catalyst for NH3-SCR of NOx in a Diesel engine after-treatment
due to its excellent lean NOx reduction activity, superior N2
selectivity and remarkably high hydrothermal stability. The
success of this catalyst came at a time when many believed that
zeolite-based catalysts would never meet the stringent perfor-
mance and stability requirements for practical applications.
Some of our current understanding of Cu–CHA materials comes
from the considerable literature over the past thirty years on
other zeolite-based catalysts, in particular on Cu(Fe)–ZSM-5 and
Cu(Fe)–beta. Still, the understanding of the working catalyst has
been greatly enhanced by the availability of a number of new
in situ/in operando spectroscopy techniques that provided simul-
taneous information on the oxidation state and the location of
Cu ions, the nature of adsorbed species present in the catalyst
and catalytic performance. Despite extensive recent research on
the Cu–CHA catalysts, there are a number of unanswered ques-
tions remaining; namely, what is the role of NO+ in the reaction
mechanism, do proton sites of the zeolite play a role in the
overall catalytic cycle, which Cu ions are the true active sites
under low and high temperature NOx reduction conditions, and
what provides these catalysts the observed superior hydrothermal
stability? Although a number of reaction mechanisms have been
proposed for the NH3-SCR of NOx over these catalysts, none of
them is able to completely explain the full catalytic cycle over the
entire range of operating temperatures. Addressing these issues in
the future may lead to the development of NOx reduction catalysts
with even better performance, mainly at the lower end of the
required operating temperature (o200 1C).
Abbreviations
SCR
Selective catalytic reduction
NSR
NOx storage/reduction
DPF
Diesel particulate filter
DOC
Diesel oxidation catalyst
ASC
Ammonia slip catalyst
ICE
Internal combustion engine
CHA
Chabasite
SDA
Structure directing agent
TEPA
Tetraethylenepentamine
SSIE
Solid-state ion exchange
6R
Six-member ring
8R
Eight-member ring
D6R
Double six-member ring
Fig. 35
Comparison in SCR performance between Cu–SSZ-13 and a series of catalysts modified using the same Cu–SSZ-13 base. SCR conditions:
NH3 = NO = 350 ppm, H2O = 2.5%, O2 = 14%, GHSV = 100 000 h1 (F. Gao, et al., unpublished data).
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
EFAl
Extra framework aluminum
ELO
Extra lattice oxygen
XANES
X-ray absorption near edge structure
EXAFS
Extended X-ray absorption fine structure
HERFD
High resolution fluorescence detection
V2C
Valence-to-core
XRD
X-ray diﬀraction
IR
Infrared
FTIR
Fourier transform infrared
DRIFTS
Diﬀuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform
spectroscopy
UV-Vis
Ultraviolet-visible
LMCT
Ligand-to-metal charge transfer
MAS NMR
Magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance
EPR
Electron paramagnetic resonance
TPD
Temperature programmed desorption
TPR
Temperature programmed reduction
DFT
Density functional theory
HTA
Hydrothermal ageing
E–R
Eley–Rideal
L–H
Langmuir–Hinshelwood
Author contributions
The manuscript was written through contributions of all authors.
All authors have given approval to the final version of the
manuscript.
Funding
A.M.B. and I.L.G. would like to thank EPSRC for funding. F.G.,
C.H.F.P. and J.Sz. gratefully acknowledge financial support from
the US Department of Energy (DOE), Oﬃce of Energy Eﬃciency
and Renewable Energy, Vehicle Technologies Program.
Conflicts of interest
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
References
1 R. M. Heck, R. J. Farrauto and S. T. Gulati, Catalytic Air
Pollution Control: Commercial Technology, Wiley, New York,
3rd edn, 2009.
2 V. I. Parvulescu, P. Grange and B. Delmon, Catal. Today,
1998, 46, 233–316.
3 G. Busca, M. A. Larrubia, L. Arrighi and G. Ramis, Catal.
Today, 2005, 107–08, 139–148.
4 Z. M. Liu and S. I. Woo, Catal. Rev., 2006, 48, 43–89.
5 S. Brandenberger, O. Krocher, A. Tissler and R. Althoﬀ,
Catal. Rev., 2008, 50, 492–531.
6 B. Moden, J. M. Donohue, W. E. Cormier and H. X. Li, Top.
Catal., 2010, 53, 1367–1373.
7 U. Deka, I. Lezcano-Gonzalez, B. M. Weckhuysen and
A. M. Beale, ACS Catal., 2013, 3, 413–427.
8 F. Gao, J. H. Kwak, J. Szanyi and C. H. F. Peden, Top. Catal.,
2013, 56, 1441–1459.
9 G. Centi and S. Perathoner, Appl. Catal., A, 1995, 132,
179–259.
10 G. Busca, L. Lietti, G. Ramis and F. Berti, Appl. Catal., B,
1998, 18, 1–36.
11 H. Bosch and F. J. J. G. Janssen, Catal. Today, 1988, 2,
369–531.
12 J. W. Byrne, J. M. Chen and B. K. Speronello, Catal. Today,
1992, 13, 33–42.
13 J. Jansson, in Urea-SCR Technology for deNOx After Treatment of
Diesel Exhausts, ed. I. Nova and E. Tronconi, Springer Science
and Business Media, New York, 2014, ch. 3, pp. 65–96.
14 M. Iwamoto, H. Furukawa, Y. Mine, F. Uemura, S. I.
Mikuriya and S. Kagawa, J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun.,
1986, 1272–1273, DOI: 10.1039/C39860001272.
15 C. T. Goralski and W. F. Schneider, Appl. Catal., B, 2002,
37, 263–277.
16 T. Komatsu, M. Nunokawa, I. S. Moon, T. Takahara,
S. Namba and T. Yashima, J. Catal., 1994, 148, 427–437.
17 F. Witzel, G. A. Sill and W. K. Hall, J. Catal., 1994, 149,
229–237.
18 K. C. C. Kharas, D. J. Liu and H. J. Robota, Catal. Today,
1995, 26, 129–145.
19 G. D. Lei, B. J. Adelman, J. Sarkany and W. M. H. Sachtler,
Appl. Catal., B, 1995, 5, 245–256.
20 K. C. C. Kharas, H. J. Robota and D. J. Liu, Appl. Catal., B,
1993, 2, 225–237.
21 J. Y. Yan, G. D. Lei, W. M. H. Sachtler and H. H. Kung,
J. Catal., 1996, 161, 43–54.
22 X. B. Feng and W. K. Hall, Catal. Lett., 1996, 41, 45–46.
23 X. B. Feng and W. K. Hall, J. Catal., 1997, 166, 368–376.
24 R. W. Joyner and M. Stockenhuber, Catal. Lett., 1997, 45,
15–19.
25 T. V. Voskoboinikov, H. Y. Chen and W. M. H. Sachtler,
Appl. Catal., B, 1998, 19, 279–287.
26 P. Marturano, L. Drozdova, A. Kogelbauer and R. Prins,
J. Catal., 2000, 192, 236–247.
27 R. Q. Long and R. T. Yang, Catal. Lett., 2001, 74, 201–205.
28 R. Q. Long and R. T. Yang, J. Catal., 1999, 188, 332–339.
29 R. Q. Long and R. T. Yang, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1999, 121,
5595–5596.
30 B. Coq, M. Mauvezin, G. Delahay, J. B. Butet and S. Kieger,
Appl. Catal., B, 2000, 27, 193–198.
31 B. Coq, M. Mauvezin, G. Delahay and S. Kieger, J. Catal.,
2000, 195, 298–303.
32 M. Mauvezin, G. Delahay, B. Coq, S. Kieger, J. C. Jumas and
J. Olivier-Fourcade, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2001, 105, 928–935.
33 A. M. Frey, S. Mert, J. Due-Hansen, R. Fehrmann and
C. H. Christensen, Catal. Lett., 2009, 130, 1–8.
34 D. Klukowski, P. Balle, B. Geiger, S. Wagloehner, S. Kureti,
B. Kimmerle, A. Baiker and J. D. Grunwaldt, Appl. Catal., B,
2009, 93, 185–193.
35 C. H. F. Peden, J. H. Kwak, S. D. Burton, R. G. Tonkyn,
D. H. Kim, J. H. Lee, H. W. Jen, G. Cavataio, Y. S. Cheng
and C. K. Lambert, Catal. Today, 2012, 184, 245–251.
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
36 H. Y. Chen, in Urea-SCR Technology for deNOx After Treat-
ment of Diesel Exhausts, ed. I. Nova and E. Tronconi,
Springer Science and Business Media, New York, 2014,
ch. 5, pp. 123–147.
37 J. F. Haw, W. G. Song, D. M. Marcus and J. B. Nicholas,
Acc. Chem. Res., 2003, 36, 317–326.
38 J. Q. Chen, A. Bozzano, B. Glover, T. Fuglerud and S. Kvisle,
Catal. Today, 2005, 106, 103–107.
39 S. Bordiga, L. Regli, D. Cocina, C. Lamberti, M. Bjorgen
and K. P. Lillerud, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109, 2779–2784.
40 S. Bordiga, L. Regli, C. Lamberti, A. Zecchina, M. Bjorgen
and K. P. Lillerud, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109, 7724–7732.
41 Y. Jeanvoine, J. G. Angyan, G. Kresse and J. Hafner, J. Phys.
Chem. B, 1998, 102, 5573–5580.
42 J. Andersen, J. E. Bailie, J. L. Casci, H. Y. Chen, J. M.
Fedeyko, R. K. S. Foo and R. R. Rajaram, International Pat.,
WO/2008/132452, 2008.
43 I. Bull, W. M. Xue, P. Burk, R. S. Boorse, W. M. Jaglowski,
G. S. Koermer, A. Moini, J. A. Patchett, J. C. Dettling and
M. T. Caudle, US Pat., 7601662B2, 2009.
44 I. Bull, A. Mioni, G. S. Koermer, J. A. Patchett, W. M.
Jaglowski and S. Roth, US Pat., 7,704,475 B22010.
45 P. J. Andersen, H. Y. Chen, J. M. Fedeyko and E. Weigert,
US Pat., 7,998,443B2, 2011.
46 L. S. Dent and J. V. Smith, Nature, 1958, 181, 1794–1796.
47 S. I. Zones, US Pat., 4,544,538, 1985.
48 J. H. Kwak, R. G. Tonkyn, D. H. Kim, J. Szanyi and
C. H. F. Peden, J. Catal., 2010, 275, 187–190.
49 D. W. Fickel and R. F. Lobo, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2010, 114,
1633–1640.
50 D. W. Fickel, E. D’Addio, J. A. Lauterbach and R. F. Lobo,
Appl. Catal., B, 2011, 102, 441–448.
51 U. Deka, A. Juhin, E. A. Eilertsen, H. Emerich, M. A. Green,
S. T. Korhonen, B. M. Weckhuysen and A. M. Beale, J. Phys.
Chem. C, 2012, 116, 4809–4818.
52 V. F. Kispersky, A. J. Kropf, F. H. Ribeiro and J. T. Miller,
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2012, 14, 2229–2238.
53 F. Gao, E. D. Walter, E. M. Karp, J. Y. Luo, R. G. Tonkyn, J. H.
Kwak, J. Szanyi and C. H. F. Peden, J. Catal., 2013, 300, 20–29.
54 M. Briend, R. Vomscheid, M. J. Peltre, P. P. Man and
D. Barthomeuf, J. Phys. Chem., 1995, 99, 8270–8276.
55 I. Bull and U. Muller, European Pat., 2269733, 2011.
56 T. Alvaro-Munoz, C. Marquez-Alvarez and E. Sastre, Catal.
Today, 2012, 179, 27–34.
57 S. Wilson and P. Barger, Microporous Mesoporous Mater.,
1999, 29, 117–126.
58 R. Vomscheid, M. Briend, M. J. Peltre, P. P. Man and
D. Barthomeuf, J. Phys. Chem., 1994, 98, 9614–9618.
59 F. Gao, E. D. Walter, N. M. Washton, J. Szanyi and
C. H. F. Peden, ACS Catal., 2013, 3, 2083–2093.
60 L. Wang, W. Li, G. S. Qi and D. Weng, J. Catal., 2012, 289,
21–29.
61 J. Wang, T. Yu, X. Q. Wang, G. S. Qi, J. J. Xue, M. Q. Shen
and W. Li, Appl. Catal., B, 2012, 127, 137–147.
62 A. Frache, B. I. Palella, M. Cadoni, R. Pirone, H. O. Pastore
and L. Marchese, Top. Catal., 2003, 22, 53–57.
63 D. B. Akolekar, S. K. Bhargava and K. Foger, J. Chem. Soc.,
Faraday Trans., 1998, 94, 155–160.
64 D. B. Akolekar and S. K. Bhargava, Appl. Catal., A, 2001,
207, 355–365.
65 F. Gao, M. Kolla
´r, R. K. Kukkadapu, N. M. Washton,
Y. L. Wang, J. Szanyi and C. H. F. Peden, Appl. Catal., B,
2015, 164, 407–419.
66 L. M. Ren, L. F. Zhu, C. G. Yang, Y. M. Chen, Q. Sun,
H. Y. Zhang, C. J. Li, F. Nawaz, X. J. Meng and F. S. Xiao,
Chem. Commun., 2011, 47, 9789–9791.
67 L. J. Xie, F. D. Liu, L. M. Ren, X. Y. Shi, F. S. Xiao and H. He,
Environ. Sci. Technol., 2014, 48, 566–572.
68 R. Martinez-Franco, M. Moliner, C. Franch, A. Kustov and
A. Corma, Appl. Catal., B, 2012, 127, 273–280.
69 R. Martinez-Franco, M. Moliner, P. Concepcion, J. R. Thogersen
and A. Corma, J. Catal., 2014, 314, 73–82.
70 D. Wang, F. Gao, C. H. F. Peden, J. H. Li, K. Kamasamudram
and W. S. Epling, ChemCatChem, 2014, 6, 1579–1583.
71 F. Gao, E. D. Walter, N. M. Washton, J. Szanyi and
C. H. F. Peden, Appl. Catal., B, 2015, 162, 501–514.
72 S. Shwan, M. Skoglundh, L. F. Lundegaard, R. R. Tiruvalam,
T. V. W. Janssens, A. Carlsson and P. N. R. Vennestrøm,
ACS Catal., 2015, 5, 16–19.
73 S. Bordiga, E. Groppo, G. Agostini, J. A. van Bokhoven and
C. Lamberti, Chem. Rev., 2013, 113, 1736–1850.
74 J. G. Mesu, T. Visser, A. M. Beale, F. Soulimani and
B. M. Weckhuysen, Chem. – Eur. J., 2006, 12, 7167–7177.
75 J. H. Kwak, T. Varga, C. H. F. Peden, F. Gao, J. C. Hanson
and J. Szanyi, J. Catal., 2014, 314, 83–93.
76 E. Borfecchia, K. A. Lomachenko, F. Giordanino, H. Falsig,
P. Beato, A. V. Soldatov, S. Bordiga and C. Lamberti, Chem.
Sci., 2015, 6, 548–563.
77 I. Lezcano-Gonzalez, U. Deka, H. E. van der Bij, P. Paalanen,
B. Arstad, B. M. Weckhuysen and A. M. Beale, Appl. Catal., B,
2014, 154, 339–349.
78 S. A. Bates, A. A. Verma, C. Paolucci, A. A. Parekh,
T. Anggara, A. Yezerets, W. F. Schneider, J. T. Miller,
W. N. Delgass and F. H. Ribeiro, J. Catal., 2014, 312, 87–97.
79 U. Deka, I. Lezcano-Gonzalez, S. J. Warrender, A. L. Picone,
P. A. Wright, B. M. Weckhuysen and A. M. Beale, Micro-
porous Mesoporous Mater., 2013, 166, 144–152.
80 C. Paolucci, A. A. Verma, S. A. Bates, V. F. Kispersky,
J. T. Miller, R. Gounder, W. N. Delgass, F. H. Ribeiro and
W. F. Schneider, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2014, 53, 11828–11833.
81 P. Glatzel and U. Bergmann, Coord. Chem. Rev., 2005, 249,
65–95.
82 S. T. Korhonen, D. W. Fickel, R. F. Lobo, B. M. Weckhuysen
and A. M. Beale, Chem. Commun., 2011, 47, 800–802.
83 K. Kervinen, P. C. A. Bruijnincx, A. M. Beale, J. G. Mesu,
G. van Koten, R. Gebbink and B. M. Weckhuysen, J. Am.
Chem. Soc., 2006, 128, 3208–3217.
84 J. G. Mesu, T. Visser, F. Soulimani, E. E. van Faassen, P. de
Peinder, A. M. Beale and B. M. Weckhuysen, Inorg. Chem.,
2006, 45, 1960–1971.
85 A. M. Beale, E. K. Gibson, M. G. O’Brien, S. D. M. Jacques,
R. J. Cernik, M. Di Michiel, P. D. Cobden, O. Pirgon-Galin,
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
L. van de Water, M. J. Watson and B. M. Weckhuysen,
J. Catal., 2014, 314, 94–100.
86 D. W. Fickel, J. M. Fedeyko and R. F. Lobo, J. Phys. Chem. C,
2010, 114, 1633–1640.
87 C. W. Andersen, M. Bremholm, P. N. R. Vennestrom,
A. B. Blichfeld, L. F. Lundegaard and B. B. Iversen, IUCrJ,
2014, 1, 382–386.
88 I. Lezcano-Gonzalez, U. Deka, B. Arstad, A. Van Yperen-De
Deyne, K. Hemelsoet, M. Waroquier, V. Van Speybroeck,
B. M. Weckhuysen and A. M. Beale, Phys. Chem. Chem.
Phys., 2014, 16, 1639–1650.
89 W. A. Slawniski, D. S. Wragg, D. Akporiaye and H. Fjellvag,
Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2014, 195, 311–318.
90 M. M. Mertens, A. Verberckmoes, M. J. Janssen, Y. F. Chang, L.
R. M. Martens, S. N. Vaughn, K. R. Clem and W. J. Mortier,
US2010028679-A1, 2010; M. M. Mertens, A0 Verberckmoes,
M. J. Janssen, Y. F. Chang, L. R. M. Martens, S. N. Vaughn,
K. R. Clem and W. J. Mortier, US7914760-B2, 2010.
91 H. Okaniwa, K. Tokunaga, Y. Nagai, H. Aoyama, S. Hirano
and M. Yoshimitsu, WO2014038636-A1, 2014; K. Inoue,
H. Ono and D. Hosaka, JP2014065029-A, 2014.
92 J. Wang, Z. Peng, H. Qiao, L. Han, W. Bao, L. Chang,
G. Feng and W. Liu, RSC Adv., 2014, 4, 42403–42411.
93 R. A. Schoonheydt, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2010, 39, 5051–5066.
94 F. Giordanino, P. N. R. Vennestrom, L. F. Lundegaard,
F. N. Stappen, S. Mossin, P. Beato, S. Bordiga and
C. Lamberti, Dalton Trans., 2013, 42, 12741–12761.
95 A. A. Verma, S. A. Bates, T. Anggara, C. Paolucci, A. A.
Parekh, K. Kamasamudram, A. Yezerets, J. T. Miller, W. N.
Delgass, W. F. Schneider and F. H. Ribeiro, J. Catal., 2014,
312, 179–190.
96 A. Vimont, F. Thibault-Starzyk and M. Daturi, Chem. Soc.
Rev., 2010, 39, 4928–4950.
97 C. Lamberti, A. Zecchina, E. Groppo and S. Bordiga, Chem.
Soc. Rev., 2010, 39, 4951–5001.
98 K. Hadjiivanov and H. Kno
¨zinger, Surf. Sci., 2009, 603,
1629–1636.
99 J. Hun Kwak, H. Zhu, J. H. Lee, C. H. F. Peden and J. Szanyi,
Chem. Commun., 2012, 48, 4758–4760.
100 J. Szanyi, J. H. Kwak, H. Zhu and C. H. F. Peden, Phys.
Chem. Chem. Phys., 2013, 15, 2368–2380.
101 F. Giordanino, P. N. R. Vennestrom, L. F. Lundegaard,
F. N. Stappen, S. Mossin, P. Beato, S. Bordiga and
C. Lamberti, Dalton Trans., 2013, 42, 12741–12761.
102 F. Goltl, R. E. Bulo, J. Hafner and P. Sautet, J. Phys. Chem.
Lett., 2013, 4, 2244–2249.
103 F. Gao, M. Kolla
´r, R. K. Kukkadapu, N. M. Washton,
Y. Wang, J. Szanyi and C. H. F. Peden, Appl. Catal., B,
2015, 164, 407–419.
104 M. Mihaylov, E. Ivanova, N. Drenchev and K. Hadjiivanov,
J. Phys. Chem. C, 2009, 114, 1004–1014.
105 H. Kno
¨zinger, Handbook of Heterogeneous Catalysis, Springer-
Verlag, Inc., 1996.
106 J. H. Kwak, J. H. Lee, S. D. Burton, A. S. Lipton, C. H. F.
Peden and J. Szanyi, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2013, 52,
9985–9989.
107 R. Zhang, J.-S. McEwen, M. Kolla
´r, F. Gao, Y. Wang, J. Szanyi
and C. H. F. Peden, ACS Catal., 2014, 4, 4093–4105.
108 R. Kefirov, E. Ivanova, K. Hadjiivanov, S. Dzwigaj and
M. Che, Catal. Lett., 2008, 125, 209–214.
109 L. Benco, T. Bucko, R. Grybos, J. Hafner, Z. Sobalik, J. Dedecek,
S. Sklenak and J. Hrusak, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2007, 111,
9393–9402.
110 G. Mul, J. Pe
´rez-Ramı
´rez, F. Kapteijn and J. A. Moulijn,
Catal. Lett., 2002, 80, 129–138.
111 M. Rivallan, G. Ricchiardi, S. Bordiga and A. Zecchina,
J. Catal., 2009, 264, 104–116.
112 G. Berlier, G. Spoto, G. Ricchiardi, S. Bordiga, C. Lamberti
and A. Zecchina, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem., 2002, 182–183,
359–366.
113 R. Joyner and M. Stockenhuber, J. Phys. Chem. B, 1999, 103,
5963–5976.
114 M. P. Ruggeri, I. Nova, E. Tronconi, J. A. Pihl, T. J. Toops and
W. P. Partridge, Appl. Catal., B, 2015, 166–167, 181–192.
115 L. Xie, F. Liu, K. Liu, X. Shi and H. He, Catal. Sci. Technol.,
2014, 4, 1104–1110.
116 L. Ma, Y. Cheng, G. Cavataio, R. W. McCabe, L. Fu and J. Li,
Appl. Catal., B, 2014, 156–157, 428–437.
117 Y. J. Kim, J. K. Lee, K. M. Min, S. B. Hong, I.-S. Nam and
B. K. Cho, J. Catal., 2014, 311, 447–457.
118 H. Zhu, J. H. Kwak, C. H. F. Peden and J. Szanyi, Catal.
Today, 2013, 205, 16–23.
119 F. Giordanino, E. Borfecchia, K. A. Lomachenko, A. Lazzarini,
G. Agostini, E. Gallo, A. V. Soldatov, P. Beato, S. Bordiga and
C. Lamberti, J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 2014, 5, 1552–1559.
120 F. Gao, Y. L. Wang and D. W. Goodman, J. Phys. Chem. C,
2009, 113, 14993–15000.
121 X. Yang, Z. Wu, M. Moses-Debusk, D. R. Mullins,
S. M. Mahurin, R. A. Geiger, M. Kidder and C. K. Narula,
J. Phys. Chem. C, 2012, 116, 23322–23331.
122 R. Zhang, Y. Li and T. Zhen, RSC Adv., 2014, 4, 52130–52139.
123 J. Sa
´rka
´ny and W. M. H. Sachtler, Zeolites, 1994, 14, 7–11.
124 J. Sa
´rka
´ny and W. M. H. Sachtler, in Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.,
ed. H. G. K. I. K. H.K. Beyer and J. B. Nagy, Elsevier, 1995,
vol. 94, pp. 649–656.
125 G. D. Lei, B. J. Adelman, J. Sa
´rka
´ny and W. M. H. Sachtler,
Appl. Catal., B, 1995, 5, 245–256.
126 J. Sa
´rka
´ny, J. Mol. Struct., 1997, 410–411, 95–98.
127 J. Sa
´rka
´ny, J. Mol. Struct., 1997, 410–411, 137–140.
128 J. Sa
´rka
´ny, J. Mol. Struct., 1997, 410–411, 145–148.
129 J. Sa
´rka
´ny, Appl. Catal., A, 1999, 188, 369–379.
130 J. Sa
´rka
´ny, Appl. Catal., A, 2002, 229, 291–312.
131 J. Sa
´rka
´ny, Surf. Sci., 2004, 566–568(Part 2), 723–727.
132 D. Goldfarb, Electron Paramagnetic Resonance. A Practitio-
ner’s Toolkit, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2009.
133 Y. Li, Z. H. Wei, J. M. Sun, F. Gao, C. H. F. Peden and
Y. Wang, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2013, 117, 5722–5729.
134 F. Gao, E. D. Walter, M. Kollar, Y. Wang, J. Szanyi and
C. H. F. Peden, J. Catal., 2014, 319, 1–14.
135 A. Godiksen,
F. N.
Stappen,
P.
N.
R.
Vennestrøm,
F. Giordanino, S. B. Rasmussen, L. F. Lundegaard and
S. Mossin, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2014, 118, 23126–23138.
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
Chem. Soc. Rev.
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
136 Q. Guo, F. Fan, D. A. J. M. Ligthart, G. Li, Z. Feng,
E. J. M. Hensen and C. Li, ChemCatChem, 2014, 6, 634–639.
137 L. Ma, Y. Cheng, G. Cavataio, R. W. McCabe, L. Fu and J. Li,
Chem. Eng. J., 2013, 225, 323–330.
138 L. Mafra, J. A. Vidal-Moya and T. Blasco, Annu. Rep. NMR
Spectrosc., Elsevier, 2012.
139 J. H. Kwak, D. Tran, S. D. Burton, J. Szanyi, J. H. Lee and
C. H. F. Peden, J. Catal., 2012, 287, 203–209.
140 S. J. Schmieg, S. H. Oh, C. H. Kim, D. B. Brown, J. H. Lee,
C. H. F. Peden and D. H. Kim, Catal. Today, 2012, 184,
252–261.
141 F. Gao, Y. L. Wang, M. Kollar, N. M. Washton, J. Szanyi and
C. H. F. Peden, Catal. Today, 2015, DOI: 10.1016/j.cattod.
2015.01.025.
142 I. Lezcano-Gonzalez, U. Deka, H. E. van der Bij, P. Paalanen,
B. Arstad, B. M. Weckhuysen and A. M. Beale, Appl. Catal., B,
2014, 154–155, 339–349.
143 U. Deka, I. Lezcano-Gonzalez, S. J. Warrender, A. Lorena
Picone, P. A. Wright, B. M. Weckhuysen and A. M. Beale,
Microporous Mesoporous Mater., 2013, 166, 144–152.
144 A. Corma, Chem. Rev., 1995, 95, 559–614.
145 F. Lo
´nyi and J. Valyon, Microporous Mesoporous Mater.,
2001, 47, 293–301.
146 E.-Y. Choi, I.-S. Nam and Y. G. Kim, J. Catal., 1996, 161,
597–604.
147 M. Niwa, S. Nishikawa and N. Katada, Microporous Meso-
porous Mater., 2005, 82, 105–112.
148 D. Wang, L. Zhang, K. Kamasamudram and W. S. Epling,
ACS Catal., 2013, 3, 871–881.
149 H. Sjo
¨vall, R. J. Blint and L. Ollsson, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2009,
113, 1393–1405.
150 O. Mihai, C. R. Widyastuti, S. Andonova, K. Kamasamudram,
J. H. Li, S. Y. Joshi, N. W. Currier, A. Yezerets and L. Olsson,
J. Catal., 2014, 311, 170–181.
151 D. Wang, Y. Jangjou, Y. Liu, M. K. Sharma, J. Luo, J. Li,
K. Kamasamudram and W. S. Epling, Appl. Catal., B, 2015,
165, 438–445.
152 F. Gao, E. D. Walter, M. Kollar, Y. L. Wang, J. Szanyi and
C. H. F. Peden, J. Catal., 2014, 319, 1–14.
153 I. Ellmers, R. P. Velez, U. Bentrup, A. Bruckner and
W. Grunert, J. Catal., 2014, 311, 199–211.
154 M. Ruggeri, I. Nova and E. Tronconi, Top. Catal., 2013, 56,
109–113.
155 J. H. Kwak, J. H. Lee, S. D. Burton, A. S. Lipton, C. H. F.
Peden and J. Szanyi, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2013, 52,
9985–9989.
156 A. Godiksen,
F. N.
Stappen,
P.
N.
R.
Vennestrom,
F. Giordanino, S. B. Rasmussen, L. F. Lundegaard and
S. Mossin, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2014, 118, 23126–23138.
157 P. S. Metkar, V. Balakotaiah and M. P. Harold, Catal.
Today, 2012, 184, 115–128.
158 G. Ramis, L. Yi and G. Busca, Catal. Today, 1996, 28,
373–380.
159 N. N. Sazonova, A. V. Simakov, T. A. Nikoro, G. B. Barannik,
V. F. Lyakhova, V. I. Zheivot, Z. R. Ismagilov and H. Veringa,
React. Kinet. Catal. Lett., 1996, 57, 71–79.
160 M.
Ueshima,
K.
Sano,
M.
Ikeda,
K.
Yoshino
and
J. Okamura, Res. Chem. Intermed., 1998, 24, 133–141.
161 R. Q. Long and R. T. Yang, J. Catal., 2001, 201, 145–152.
162 G. S. Qi, J. E. Gatt and R. T. Yang, J. Catal., 2004, 226, 120–128.
163 G. S. Qi and R. T. Yang, Appl. Catal., A, 2005, 287, 25–33.
164 M. Amblard, R. Burch and B. W. L. Southward, Catal.
Today, 2000, 59, 365–371.
165 R. M. Koros and E. J. Nowak, Chem. Eng. Sci., 1967, 22, 470.
166 R. J. Madon and M. Boudart, Ind. Eng. Chem. Fundam.,
1982, 21, 438–447.
167 O. Krocher and M. Elsener, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2008, 47,
8588–8593.
168 A. Grossale, I. Nova, E. Tronconi, D. Chatterjee and
M. Weibel, Top. Catal., 2009, 52, 1837–1841.
169 M. Colombo, I. Nova and E. Tronconi, Catal. Today, 2010,
151, 223–230.
170 P. S. Metkar, N. Salazar, R. Muncrief, V. Balakotaiah and
M. P. Harold, Appl. Catal., B, 2011, 104, 110–126.
171 P. S. Metkar, M. P. Harold and V. Balakotaiah, Appl. Catal., B,
2012, 111, 67–80.
172 M. Iwasaki, in Urea-SCR Technology for deNOx After Treat-
ment of Diesel Exhausts, ed. I. Nova and E. Tronconi,
Springer, New York, 2014, ch. 8, pp. 221–246.
173 S. T. Korhonen, D. W. Fickel, R. F. Lobo, B. M. Weckhuysen
and A. M. Beale, Chem. Commun., 2011, 47, 800–802.
174 J. S. McEwen, T. Anggara, W. F. Schneider, V. F. Kispersky,
J. T. Miller, W. N. Delgass and F. H. Ribeiro, Catal. Today,
2012, 184, 129–144.
175 H. Y. Zhu, J. H. Kwak, C. H. F. Peden and J. Szanyi, Catal.
Today, 2013, 205, 16–23.
176 T. Yu, T. Hao, D. Q. Fan, J. Wang, M. Q. Shen and W. Li,
J. Phys. Chem. C, 2014, 118, 6565–6575.
177 S. Brandenberger, O. Krocher, A. Tissler and R. Althoﬀ,
Appl. Catal., B, 2010, 95, 348–357.
178 J. Szanyi, J. H. Kwak, H. Y. Zhu and C. H. F. Peden, Phys.
Chem. Chem. Phys., 2013, 15, 2368–2380.
179 R. Q. Zhang, J. S. McEwen, M. Kollar, F. Gao, Y. L. Wang,
J. Szanyi and C. H. F. Peden, ACS Catal., 2014, 4, 4093–4105.
180 S.
Malmberg,
M.
Votsmeier,
J.
Gieshoﬀ,
N.
Soger,
L. Mussmann, A. Schuler and A. Drochner, Top. Catal.,
2007, 42–43, 33–36.
181 I. Nova, M. Colombo, E. Tronconi, V. Schmeisser and
M. Weibel, SAE Technical paper 2011, 2011-01-1319.
182 S. Kieger, G. Delahay, B. Coq and B. Neveu, J. Catal., 1999,
183, 267–280.
183 Q. Sun, Z. X. Gao, H. Y. Chen and W. M. H. Sachtler,
J. Catal., 2001, 201, 89–99.
184 A. Grossale, I. Nova and E. Tronconi, Catal. Today, 2008,
136, 18–27.
185 O. Krocher, M. Devadas, M. Elsener, A. Wokaun, N. Soger,
M. Pfeifer, Y. Demel and L. Mussmann, Appl. Catal., B,
2006, 66, 208–216.
186 M. Colombo, I. Nova and E. Tronconi, Catal. Today, 2010,
151, 223–230.
187 R. Nedyalkova, K. Kamasamudram, N. W. Currier, J. H. Li,
A. Yezerets and L. Olsson, J. Catal., 2013, 299, 101–108.
Review Article
Chem Soc Rev
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
This journal is ©The Royal Society of Chemistry 2015
Chem. Soc. Rev.
188 M. Inomata, A. Miyamoto and Y. Murakami, J. Catal., 1980,
62, 140–148.
189 M. Kantcheva, V. Bushev and D. Klissurski, J. Catal., 1994,
145, 96–106.
190 R. Q. Long and R. T. Yang, J. Catal., 2002, 207, 224–231.
191 T. Yu, J. Wang, M. Q. Shen and W. Li, Catal.: Sci. Technol.,
2013, 3, 3234–3241.
192 T. Yu, D. Q. Fan, T. Hao, J. Wang, M. Q. Shen and W. Li,
Chem. Eng. J., 2014, 243, 159–168.
193 F. Gao, M. Kollar, Y. L. Wang, J. Szanyi and C. H. F. Peden,
unpublished work.
194 M. Schwidder, M. S. Kumar, U. Bentrup, J. Perez-Ramirez,
A. Bruckner and W. Grunert, Microporous Mesoporous
Mater., 2008, 111, 124–133.
195 S. Brandenberger, O. Krocher, A. Wokaun, A. Tissler and
R. Althoﬀ, J. Catal., 2009, 268, 297–306.
196 M. Devadas, O. Krocher, M. Elsener, A. Wokaun, N. Soger,
M. Pfeifer, Y. Demel and L. Mussmann, Appl. Catal., B,
2006, 67, 187–196.
197 H. Y. Chen, Q. Sun, B. Wen, Y. H. Yeom, E. Weitz and
W. M. H. Sachtler, Catal. Today, 2004, 96, 1–10.
198 A. Grossale, I. Nova, E. Tronconi, D. Chatterjee and
M. Weibel, Top. Catal., 2009, 52, 1837–1841.
199 A. Grossale, I. Nova and E. Tronconi, Catal. Lett., 2009, 130,
525–531.
200 P. Forzatti, I. Nova and E. Tronconi, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.,
2009, 48, 8366–8368.
201 J. H. Kwak, D. Tran, S. D. Burton, J. Szanyi, J. H. Lee and
C. H. F. Peden, J. Catal., 2012, 287, 203–209.
202 P. N. R. Vennestrøm, T. V. W. Janssens, A. Kustov, M. Grill,
A. Puig-Molina, L. F. Lundegaard, R. R. Tiruvalam,
P. Concepcion and A. Corma, J. Catal., 2014, 309, 477–490.
203 Y. J. Kim, J. K. Lee, K. M. Min, S. B. Hong, I. S. Nam and
B. K. Cho, J. Catal., 2014, 311, 447–457.
204 M. Zammit, C. L. DiMaggio, C. H. Kim, C. K. Lambert,
G. G. Muntean, C. H. F. Peden, J. E. Parks and K. Howden,
Future Automotive Aftertreatment Solutions: The 150 1C
Challenge Workshop Report, U.S. Drive Report, Southfield,
MI, 2013.
205 T. Bogere, in Urea-SCR Technology for de-NOx Aftertreatment
of Diesel Exhaust, ed. I. Nova and E. Tronconi, Springer
Science and Busines Media, New York, 2014, pp. 623–655.
206 R. Chal, C. Ge
´rardin, M. Bulut and S. van Donk, ChemCatChem,
2011, 3, 67–81.
207 S. van Donk, A. H. Janssen, J. H. Bitter and K. P. de Jong,
Catal. Rev., 2003, 45, 297–319.
208 R. Floyd, L. Michael and z. Shaikh, in Urea-SCR Technology
for de-NOx Aftertreatment of Diesel Exhaust, ed. I. Nova
and E. Tronconi, Springer Science and Business Media,
New York, 2014, pp. 355–483.
209 D. Peitz, A. Bernhard and O. Krocher, in Urea-SCR Technol-
ogy for de-NOx Aftertreatment of Diesel Exhaust, ed. I. Nova
and E. Tronconi, Springer Science and Business Meida,
New York, 2014, pp. 485–506.
210 J. Kwak, D. Tran, J. Szanyi, C. F. Peden and J. Lee, Catal.
Lett., 2012, 142, 295–301.
211 F. Gao, Y. L. Wang, M. Kollar, J. Szanyi and C. H. F. Peden,
Provisional Patent filed, 2014, #30561-E.
Chem Soc Rev
Review Article
Published on 27 April 2015. Downloaded by University of Georgia on 27/04/2015 14:43:00. 
View Article Online
