<quotes>

[1] "The activation of alkanes is more difcult than that of the corresponding olens,but their large reserves underline the economic inter- est in their conversion."
[2] "The lower alkanes are the least reactive hydrocarbons, and this has preserved them over time. Also, their low reactivity has hindered their use in industrial pro- cesses."
[3] "The selective conversion of parafns to aromatics, to olens or to organic molecules con- taining oxygen or nitrogen atoms is a source of many chemical products."
[4] "The development of direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenate hydro- carbons would provide an attractive alternative."
[5] "The transformation of catalyst structure under reaction conditions and its implica- tions in catalytic performance are discussed, under- lining the need for the development and routine use of in situ characterization methodologies."
[6] "The activation of parafns is harder than that of other hydrocarbons due to the high stability of the former. Therefore, the products formed may be readily oxidized under the conditions required to activate parafns, thus limiting selectivity."
[7] "The high stability of alkanes is due to their electronic structure. The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds protects the carbon atoms. The CH bonds are more exposed than the CC bonds of hydrocarbons and their clea- vage should be the rst step in the transformation of most hydrocarbons."
[8] "The CH energy bond is highest for primary carbons (Table 1), CH bonds on secondary and tertiary car- bons are more reactive and C3 hydrocarbons are activated through these sites."
[9] "The initial activation of the CH bond of the hydrocarbon by the catalyst requires the existence of an afnity between the alkane and the surface of the catalyst."
[10] "The surface acid/base features of an oxide depend on the charge and radius of the cation. The more oxidized the cation is, the more covalent the bond with the oxide ion, thus increasing the acidity of the oxide. Conversely, low valent cations result in a more electron-rich oxygen species, thus being more basic."
[11] "The afnity between the hydrocarbon and the sur- face promotes the activation of the molecules. Selec- tivity is also determined by the hydrocarboncatalyst interaction, the reactivity of the catalyst, and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species."
[12] "The reactivity of the catalyst is also of great relevance,because it determines how fast the surface intermedi- ates react."
[13] "The activation of molecular oxygen requires the presence of a reducible oxide. For non-reducible oxides, the presence of dopants provides reducible sites for their activation."
[14] "The relative ease in the removal of lattice oxygen is frequently characterized by the ease of catalyst reduc- tion with hydrogen or hydrocarbon."
[15] "The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen has proved to be more selective in the formation of C2- oxygenates."
[16] "The activation of N2O seems to be related to the capacity of the oxide to undergo electron transfer to stabilize oxygen ions."
[17] "The presence of surface electrophilic oxygen spe- cies is associated with the non-selective oxidation of hydrocarbons, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation."
[18] "The presence of an acidic support (alumina) also increases activity but to a lesser extent than a reducible support."
[19] "The effect of the acidity of the support in ethane oxidation with molecular oxygen on supported vana- dium oxide catalysts has been explored by Le Bars et al. and Wan and coworkers."
[20] "The higher activity of ZSM-5supported vanadium oxide catalyst is also related to the large amount of CO2 that may arise from over oxidation of partial oxidation products inside the microporous structure."
[21] "The higher activity of VAPO-4 catalyst is also related to the higher ease of reoxidation."
[22] "Both, acidbase and redox properties affect the conversion of ethane."
[23] "The addition of acidic niobia has no effect on the structure of supported vanadium oxide species it simply increases the surface density of vanadia sites."
[24] "The addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modies the redox properties and increases the acidic proper- ties of the V2O5/TiO2 catalyst; this increases the selectivity to ethylene."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The activation of alkanes is more difficult than that of the corresponding unsaturated hydrocarbons, but their large reserves highlight the economic interest in their conversion. The lower alkanes are the least reactive hydrocarbons, which has preserved them over time and hindered their use in industrial processes. The selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, olefins, or organic molecules containing oxygen or nitrogen atoms is a source of many chemical products. The development of direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons would provide an attractive alternative. The transformation of catalyst structure under reaction conditions and its implications in catalytic performance are discussed, underlining the need for the development and routine use of in situ characterization methodologies. The activation of paraffins is harder than that of other hydrocarbons due to the high stability of the former. Therefore, the products formed may be readily oxidized under the conditions required to activate paraffins, thus limiting selectivity. The high stability of alkanes is due to their electronic structure. The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds protects the carbon atoms. The CH bonds are more exposed than the CC bonds of hydrocarbons and their cleavage should be the first step in the transformation of most hydrocarbons. The CH energy bond is highest for primary carbons, CH bonds on secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive and C3 hydrocarbons are activated through these sites. The initial activation of the CH bond of the hydrocarbon by the catalyst requires the existence of an affinity between the alkane and the surface of the catalyst. The surface acid/base features of an oxide depend on the charge and radius of the cation. The more oxidized the cation is, the more covalent the bond with the oxide ion, thus increasing the acidity of the oxide. Conversely, low valent cations result in a more electron-rich oxygen species, thus being more basic. The affinity between the hydrocarbon and the surface promotes the activation of the molecules. Selectivity is also determined by the hydrocarboncatalyst interaction, the reactivity of the catalyst, and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species. The reactivity of the catalyst is also of great relevance because it determines how fast the surface intermediates react. The activation of molecular oxygen requires the presence of a reducible oxide. For non-reducible oxides, the presence of dopants provides reducible sites for their activation. The relative ease in the removal of lattice oxygen is frequently characterized by the ease of catalyst reduction with hydrogen or hydrocarbon. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen has proved to be more selective in the formation of C2-oxygenates. The activation of N2O seems to be related to the capacity of the oxide to undergo electron transfer to stabilize oxygen ions. The presence of surface electrophilic oxygen species is associated with the non-selective oxidation of hydrocarbons, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. The presence of an acidic support (alumina) also increases activity but to a lesser extent than a reducible support. The effect of the acidity of the support in ethane oxidation with molecular oxygen on supported vanadium oxide catalysts has been explored by Le Bars et al. and Wan and coworkers. The higher activity of ZSM-5supported vanadium oxide catalyst is also related to the large amount of CO2 that may arise from over oxidation of partial oxidation products inside the microporous structure. The higher activity of VAPO-4 catalyst is also related to the higher ease of reoxidation. Both, acidbase and redox properties affect the conversion of ethane. The addition of acidic niobia has no effect on the structure of supported vanadium oxide species it simply increases the surface density of vanadia sites. The addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modifies the redox properties and increases the acidic properties of the V2O5/TiO2 catalyst; this increases the selectivity to ethylene. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by promoting the formation of isolated active sites that can selectively activate the C-H bond of alkanes, leading to higher selectivity and conversion. The interplay between various catalysts, the challenges in achieving high selectivity and conversion, and the proposed reaction mechanisms collectively influence the process efficiency.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃的活化比相应的不饱和烃更困难，但其巨大的储量突出了其转化的经济利益。较低的烷烃是最不反应的烃，这在历史上保存了它们，并阻碍了它们在工业过程中的使用。选择性转化石蜡为芳烃、烯烃或含氧或氮原子的有机分子是许多化学产品的来源。直接转化乙烷为C2-氧合烃的发展将提供一个有吸引力的替代方案。在反应条件下催化剂结构的转变及其对催化性能的影响被讨论，强调了开发和常规使用原位表征方法的必要性。石蜡的活化比其他烃更困难，因为前者具有较高的稳定性。因此，形成的产物可能在激活石蜡所需的条件下容易氧化，从而限制了选择性。烷烃的高稳定性是由于它们的电子结构。CH键的四面体排列保护了碳原子。CH键比烃的CC键更暴露，它们的断裂应该是大多数烃转化的第一步。对于初级碳，CH键的能量最高，而二级和三级碳上的CH键更反应，C3烃通过这些位点被激活。烷烃的CH键与催化剂表面的初始活化需要烷烃与催化剂表面之间存在亲和力。氧化物的表面酸碱特性取决于阳离子的电荷和半径。阳离子氧化得越多，与氧化离子的键就越共价，从而增加了氧化物的酸性。相反，低价阳离子导致氧物种具有更丰富的电子，因此更碱性。烃与表面之间的亲和力促进了分子的活化。选择性也由烃催化剂的相互作用、催化剂的反应性和表面烃物种的稳定性决定。催化剂的反应性也很重要，因为它决定了表面中间体反应的速度。分子氧的活化需要可还原氧化物的存在。对于不可还原氧化物，掺杂剂的存在提供了可还原位点。晶格氧的相对容易去除通常由催化剂与氢或烃的还原容易程度表征。使用N2O代替分子氧已被证明在C2-氧合物的形成中更具选择性。N2O的活化似乎与氧化物进行电子转移以稳定氧离子的能力有关。表面亲电性氧物种的存在与烃的非选择性氧化有关，而亲核性氧物种促进选择性氧化。酸性支撑（氧化铝）的存在也增加了活性，但程度小于可还原支撑。Le Bars等人和Wan等人探索了在分子氧存在下，支撑的钒氧化物催化剂在乙烷氧化中的支撑酸性效应。ZSM-5支撑的钒氧化物催化剂的较高活性也与微孔结构中部分氧化产物过度氧化产生的大量CO2有关。VAPO-4催化剂的较高活性也与较高的再氧化容易度有关。酸碱和氧化还原性质都会影响乙烷的转化。添加酸性铌酸盐对支撑的钒氧化物物种的结构没有影响，它只是增加了矾酸盐的表面密度。将铌酸盐添加到矾钛催化剂中会改变氧化还原性质并增加V2O5/TiO2催化剂的酸性；这增加了对乙烯的选择性。位点隔离在解决选择性问题中起着至关重要的作用，通过促进形成孤立的活性位点，这些位点可以有选择性地活化烷烃的C-H键，从而导致更高的选择性和转化率。各种催化剂之间的相互作用、实现高选择性和转化率的挑战以及提出的反应机制（如C-H键活化、M-烷基中间体和2H-抽象）共同影响过程效率。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
