<quotes>

[1] "The activation of alkanes is more difcult than that of the corresponding olens,but their large reserves underline the economic inter- est in their conversion."
[2] "The selective conversion of parafns to aromatics, to olens or to organic molecules con- taining oxygen or nitrogen atoms is a source of many chemical products."
[3] "The lower alkanes are the least reactive hydrocarbons, and this has preserved them over time. Also, their low reactivity has hindered their use in industrial pro- cesses."
[4] "The development of direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenate hydro- carbons would provide an attractive alternative."
[5] "The transformation of catalyst structure under reaction conditions and its implica- tions in catalytic performance are discussed, under- lining the need for the development and routine use of in situ characterization methodologies."
[6] "The activation of parafns is harder than that of other hydrocarbons due to the high stability of the former. Therefore, the products formed may be readily oxidized under the conditions required to activate parafns, thus limiting selectivity."
[7] "The high stability of alkanes is due to their electronic structure. The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds protects the carbon atoms. The CH bonds are more exposed than the CC bonds of hydrocarbons and their clea- vage should be the rst step in the transformation of most hydrocarbons."
[8] "The CH energy bond is highest for primary carbons (Table 1), CH bonds on secondary and tertiary car- bons are more reactive and C3 hydrocarbons are activated through these sites."
[9] "The initial activation of the CH bond of the hydrocarbon by the catalyst requires the existence of an afnity between the alkane and the surface of the catalyst."
[10] "The afnity between the hydrocarbon and the sur- face promotes the activation of the molecules. Selec- tivity is also determined by the hydrocarboncatalyst interaction, the reactivity of the catalyst, and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species."
[11] "The use of olens and olen- derived products is steadily increasing and their pro- duction is mainly based on steam cracking and FCC processes, which are energy intensive."
[12] "The presence of a support is of economic interest and such supports provide new means to tailor catalytic perfor- mance by altering the exposure of the sites and modifying their nature by interaction with the support."
[13] "The supported oxide (M) binds to the support (S) via bridging MOS bonds, which are formed in part by reaction with surface hydroxyl groups."
[14] "The dehydrated surface dispersed species are stabilized by their interaction with the surface groups of the support (hydroxyls), and the surface population of hydroxyl sites determines the monolayer coverage of the supported oxide."
[15] "As the loading increases, the interaction among the supported metal oxide species (M) increases, thus resulting in surface polymeric species, characterized by the formation of MOM bonds."
[16] "The interaction with P, for supported vanadium oxide species may result in VOPO4 if V is added prior to P; otherwise P coordi- nates strongly on the support."
[17] "The activation of molecular oxygen requires the presence of a reducible oxide. For non-reducible oxides, the presence of dopants provides reducible sites for their activation."
[18] "The relative ease in the removal of lattice oxygen is frequently characterized by the ease of catalyst reduc- tion with hydrogen or hydrocarbon."
[19] "The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen has proved to be more selective in the formation of C2- oxygenates."
[20] "The presence of surface electrophilic oxygen spe- cies is associated with the non-selective oxidation of hydrocarbons, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation."
[21] "The presence of water in the reaction feed, decreases the conversion and increases the selectivity to oxygen containing species."
[22] "The presence of water, however, has a dramatic effect on the activity."
[23] "The addition of water to the feed decreases the formation of ethylene and increases that of CO and acetaldehyde, but has no effect on CO2 formation."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The activation of alkanes is more difficult than that of the corresponding unsaturated hydrocarbons, but their large reserves highlight the economic interest in their conversion. The selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or organic molecules containing oxygen or nitrogen atoms is a source of many chemical products. The lower alkanes are the least reactive hydrocarbons, and this has preserved them over time. Also, their low reactivity has hindered their use in industrial processes. The development of direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons would provide an attractive alternative. The transformation of catalyst structure under reaction conditions and its implications in catalytic performance are discussed, underlining the need for the development and routine use of in situ characterization methodologies. The activation of paraffins is harder than that of other hydrocarbons due to the high stability of the former. Therefore, the products formed may be readily oxidized under the conditions required to activate paraffins, thus limiting selectivity. The high stability of alkanes is due to their electronic structure. The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds protects the carbon atoms. The CH bonds are more exposed than the CC bonds of hydrocarbons and their cleavage should be the first step in the transformation of most hydrocarbons. The CH energy bond is highest for primary carbons, CH bonds on secondary and tertiary carbons are more reactive and C3 hydrocarbons are activated through these sites. The initial activation of the CH bond of the hydrocarbon by the catalyst requires the existence of an affinity between the alkane and the surface of the catalyst. The affinity between the hydrocarbon and the surface promotes the activation of the molecules. Selectivity is also determined by the hydrocarboncatalyst interaction, the reactivity of the catalyst, and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species. The use of unsaturated hydrocarbons and unsaturated hydrocarbon-derived products is steadily increasing and their production is mainly based on steam cracking and FCC processes, which are energy intensive. The presence of a support is of economic interest and such supports provide new means to tailor catalytic performance by altering the exposure of the sites and modifying their nature by interaction with the support. The supported oxide (M) binds to the support (S) via bridging MOS bonds, which are formed in part by reaction with surface hydroxyl groups. The dehydrated surface dispersed species are stabilized by their interaction with the surface groups of the support (hydroxyls), and the surface population of hydroxyl sites determines the monolayer coverage of the supported oxide. As the loading increases, the interaction among the supported metal oxide species (M) increases, thus resulting in surface polymeric species, characterized by the formation of MOM bonds. The interaction with P, for supported vanadium oxide species may result in VOPO4 if V is added prior to P; otherwise P coordinates strongly on the support. The activation of molecular oxygen requires the presence of a reducible oxide. For non-reducible oxides, the presence of dopants provides reducible sites for their activation. The relative ease in the removal of lattice oxygen is frequently characterized by the ease of catalyst reduction with hydrogen or hydrocarbon. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen has proved to be more selective in the formation of C2-oxygenates. The presence of surface electrophilic oxygen species is associated with the non-selective oxidation of hydrocarbons, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. The presence of water in the reaction feed decreases the conversion and increases the selectivity to oxygen-containing species. The presence of water, however, has a dramatic effect on the activity. The addition of water to the feed decreases the formation of ethylene and increases that of CO and acetaldehyde, but has no effect on CO2 formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃的活化比相应的不饱和烃更困难，但它们的大量储备突出了其转化的经济利益。选择性转化石蜡烃为芳烃、不饱和烃或含氧或氮原子的有机分子是许多化学产品的来源。较低的烷烃是最不反应的烃，这使它们得以保存至今。此外，它们的低反应性阻碍了它们在工业过程中的应用。直接将乙烷转化为C2-含氧烃的开发将提供一个有吸引力的替代方案。在反应条件下催化剂结构的转变及其对催化性能的影响被讨论，强调了开发和常规使用原位表征方法的必要性。石蜡烃的活化比其他烃更困难，因为前者具有较高的稳定性。因此，可能在激活石蜡烃所需的条件下，形成的产品容易被氧化，从而限制了选择性。烷烃的高稳定性是由于它们的电子结构。CH键的四面体排列保护了碳原子。CH键比烃的CC键更暴露，它们的断裂应该是大多数烃转化的第一步。CH键的键能对于初级碳最高，二级和三级碳上的CH键更反应性，C3烃通过这些位点被激活。激活烃分子的CH键的初始步骤需要烷烃和催化剂表面之间存在亲和力。烃与表面之间的亲和力促进了分子的活化。选择性也由烃催化剂的相互作用、催化剂的反应性和表面烃物种的稳定性决定。使用不饱和烃和不饱和烃衍生产品的使用正在稳步增加，它们的生产主要基于耗能密集的蒸汽裂解和FCC工艺。支撑的存在具有经济利益，这种支撑提供了新的手段来通过改变位点的暴露和通过与支撑的相互作用改变其性质来调整催化性能。支撑氧化物（M）通过桥接MOS键与支撑（S）结合，这些键部分由与表面羟基的反应形成。脱水表面分散物种通过它们与支撑表面组（羟基）的相互作用而稳定，表面羟基位点的数量决定了支撑氧化物的单层覆盖。随着负载量的增加，支撑金属氧化物种（M）之间的相互作用增加，从而导致表面聚合物种的形成，其特征是MOM键的形成。对于支撑的钒氧化物种，与P的相互作用如果V先于P添加，则可能产生VOPO4；否则P强烈地在支撑上配位。激活分子氧需要可还原氧化物的存在。对于不可还原氧化物，掺杂剂的存在提供了它们活化的可还原位点。晶格氧的相对容易去除通常由催化剂用氢或烃还原的容易程度表征。使用N2O代替分子氧被证明在C2-含氧物的形成中更具选择性。表面亲电性氧物种的存在与烃的非选择性氧化相关，而亲核性氧物种促进选择性氧化。反应进料中水的存在降低了转化率，增加了对含氧物种的选择性。然而，水的存在对活性有显著影响。向进料中添加水降低了乙烯的形成，增加了CO和乙醛的形成，但对CO2的形成没有影响。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
