<quotes>

[1] "The activation of alkanes is more difcult than that of the corresponding olens,but their large reserves underline the economic inter- est in their conversion."
[2] "The selective conversion of parafns to aromatics, to olens or to organic molecules con- taining oxygen or nitrogen atoms is a source of many chemical products."
[3] "The development of direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenate hydro- carbons would provide an attractive alternative."
[4] "The lower alkanes are the least reactive hydrocarbons, and this has preserved them over time. Also, their low reactivity has hindered their use in industrial pro- cesses."
[5] "The activation of parafns is harder than that of other hydrocarbons due to the high stability of the former. Therefore, the products formed may be readily oxidized under the conditions required to activate parafns, thus limiting selectivity [33,34]."
[6] "The high stability of alkanes is due to their electronic structure. The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds protects the carbon atoms. The CH bonds are more exposed than the CC bonds of hydrocarbons and their clea- vage should be the rst step in the transformation of most hydrocarbons."
[7] "The stronger the CH bond is the stronger the activation must be, and the dependence of the optimal reaction temperature for selective oxida- tion on the binding energy of the CH bond follows quite a linear trend for the lower alkanes [35]."
[8] "The initial activation of the CH bond of the hydrocarbon by the catalyst requires the existence of an afnity between the alkane and the surface of the catalyst."
[9] "The afnity between the hydrocarbon and the sur- face promotes the activation of the molecules. Selec- tivity is also determined by the hydrocarboncatalyst interaction, the reactivity of the catalyst, and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species."
[10] "A strong acidbase interaction with the support may also pro- mote further degradation of partial oxidation products."
[11] "The reactivity of the catalyst is also of great relevance,because it determines how fast the surface intermedi- ates react."
[12] "The activation of molecular oxygen requires the presence of a reducible oxide. For non-reducible oxides, the presence of dopants provides reducible sites for their activation [52]."
[13] "The relative ease in the removal of lattice oxygen is frequently characterized by the ease of catalyst reduc- tion with hydrogen or hydrocarbon."
[14] "The selectivity and reducibility do not appear to show a clear trend."
[15] "The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen has proved to be more selective in the formation of C2- oxygenates [31,6266]."
[16] "The activation of N2O seems to be related to the capacity of the oxide to undergo electron transfer to stabilize oxygen ions [52]."
[17] "The presence of surface electrophilic oxygen spe- cies is associated with the non-selective oxidation of hydrocarbons, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation [52,53,74]."
[18] "The presence of water in the reaction feed, decreases the conversion and increases the selectivity to oxygen containing species [82]."
[19] "The presence of water, however, has a dramatic effect on the activity."
[20] "The presence of large amounts of water must affect some- how the activation of N2O into O species [63], since O species are not observed by EPR on water-exposed silica-supported molybdenum oxide catalysts under N2O at 363 K [84]."
[21] "The addition of water to the feed decreases the formation of ethylene and increases that of CO and acetaldehyde, but has no effect on CO2 formation."
[22] "The presence of an acidic support (alumina) also increases activity but to a lesser extent than a reducible support."
[23] "The higher reducibility results in a higher TOF number, but oxidation state under reaction conditions does not correspond with the reducibility, as observed by in situ Raman and VisUV spectroscopy [14]."
[24] "The effect of the acidity of the support in ethane oxidation with molecular oxygen on supported vana- dium oxide catalysts has been explored by Le Bars et al. [51] and Wan and coworkers [50]."
[25] "Both, acidbase and redox properties affect the conversion of ethane."
[26] "The former is related to the activation of the hydrocarbon, but the ability to activate oxygen (iso- topic exchange) provides additional reactivity."
[27] "The addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modies the redox properties and increases the acidic proper- ties of the V2O5/TiO2 catalyst; this increases the selectivity to ethylene [121]."
[28] "The presence of Te promotes the V5 oxida- tion state and Pd results in 95% of V4. This may account for the different performances observed after doping with Pd or Te (Fig. 1)."
[29] "It has been proposed that the high afnity of metallic Pd for H2 accounts for the high selectivity of ethylene."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The activation of alkanes is more difficult than that of the corresponding unsaturated hydrocarbons, but their large reserves highlight the economic interest in their conversion. The selective conversion of paraffins to aromatics, unsaturated hydrocarbons, or organic molecules containing oxygen or nitrogen atoms is a source of many chemical products. The development of direct conversion of ethane to C2-oxygenate hydrocarbons would provide an attractive alternative. The lower alkanes are the least reactive hydrocarbons, and their low reactivity has hindered their use in industrial processes. The activation of paraffins is harder than that of other hydrocarbons due to the high stability of the former. The high stability of alkanes is due to their electronic structure. The tetrahedral arrangement of CH bonds protects the carbon atoms. The CH bonds are more exposed than the CC bonds of hydrocarbons and their cleavage should be the first step in the transformation of most hydrocarbons. The stronger the CH bond is, the stronger the activation must be, and the dependence of the optimal reaction temperature for selective oxidation on the binding energy of the CH bond follows quite a linear trend for the lower alkanes. The initial activation of the CH bond of the hydrocarbon by the catalyst requires the existence of an affinity between the alkane and the surface of the catalyst. The affinity between the hydrocarbon and the surface promotes the activation of the molecules. Selectivity is also determined by the hydrocarbon-catalyst interaction, the reactivity of the catalyst, and the stability of surface hydrocarbon species. A strong acid-base interaction with the support may also promote further degradation of partial oxidation products. The reactivity of the catalyst is also of great relevance because it determines how fast the surface intermediates react. The activation of molecular oxygen requires the presence of a reducible oxide. For non-reducible oxides, the presence of dopants provides reducible sites for their activation. The relative ease in the removal of lattice oxygen is frequently characterized by the ease of catalyst reduction with hydrogen or hydrocarbon. The selectivity and reducibility do not appear to show a clear trend. The use of N2O instead of molecular oxygen has proved to be more selective in the formation of C2-oxygenates. The activation of N2O seems to be related to the capacity of the oxide to undergo electron transfer to stabilize oxygen ions. The presence of surface electrophilic oxygen species is associated with the non-selective oxidation of hydrocarbons, whereas nucleophilic oxygen species promote selective oxidation. The presence of water in the reaction feed decreases the conversion and increases the selectivity to oxygen-containing species. The presence of water, however, has a dramatic effect on the activity. The presence of large amounts of water must affect somehow the activation of N2O into O species. The addition of water to the feed decreases the formation of ethylene and increases that of CO and acetaldehyde, but has no effect on CO2 formation. The presence of an acidic support (alumina) also increases activity but to a lesser extent than a reducible support. The higher reducibility results in a higher TOF number, but oxidation state under reaction conditions does not correspond with the reducibility. The effect of the acidity of the support in ethane oxidation with molecular oxygen on supported vanadium oxide catalysts has been explored. Both acid-base and redox properties affect the conversion of ethane. The former is related to the activation of the hydrocarbon, but the ability to activate oxygen (isotopic exchange) provides additional reactivity. The addition of niobia to vanadia titania catalysts modifies the redox properties and increases the acidic properties of the V2O5/TiO2 catalyst; this increases the selectivity to ethylene. The presence of Te promotes the V5 oxidation state and Pd results in 95% of V4. This may account for the different performances observed after doping with Pd or Te. It has been proposed that the high affinity of metallic Pd for H2 accounts for the high selectivity of ethylene. Site isolation plays a crucial role in addressing selectivity issues by promoting the formation of selective oxygen-containing products and preventing further degradation of partial oxidation products.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.烷烃的活化比相应的不饱和烃更困难，但其巨大的储量突出了其转化的经济利益。选择性转化石蜡烃为芳烃、不饱和烃或含氧或氮原子的有机分子是许多化学产品的来源。直接转化乙烷为C2-氧合烃将提供一个有吸引力的替代方案。较低的烷烃是最不反应性的烃，它们的低反应性阻碍了其在工业过程中的应用。石蜡烃的活化比其他烃更困难，因为前者具有较高的稳定性。烷烃的高稳定性是由于其电子结构。CH键的四面体排列保护了碳原子。CH键比烃的CC键更暴露，其断裂应该是大多数烃转化的第一步。CH键越强，活化必须越强，对于较低的烷烃，选择性氧化的最优反应温度对CH键结合能的依赖性相当线性。烃的CH键由催化剂的初始活化需要烷烃和催化剂表面之间存在亲和力。烃与表面之间的亲和力促进了分子的活化。选择性也由烃-催化剂相互作用、催化剂的反应性和表面烃物种的稳定性决定。与支撑物的强酸碱相互作用也可能促进部分氧化产物的进一步降解。催化剂的反应性也很重要，因为它决定了表面中间体反应的速度。分子氧的活化需要可还原氧化物的存在。对于不可还原氧化物，掺杂剂的存在提供了可还原位点。晶格氧的相对容易去除通常由催化剂用氢或烃还原的容易程度表征。选择性和可还原性似乎没有明显的趋势。使用N2O代替分子氧已被证明在C2-氧合物的形成中更具选择性。N2O的活化似乎与氧化物进行电子转移以稳定氧离子的能力有关。表面亲电性氧物种与烃的非选择性氧化有关，而亲核性氧物种促进选择性氧化。反应进料中水的存在降低了转化率，增加了对含氧物种的选择性。然而，水的存在对活性有戏剧性的影响。大量水的存在必须以某种方式影响N2O到O物种的活化。向进料中添加水会降低乙烯的形成，增加CO和乙醛的形成，但对CO2的形成没有影响。酸性支撑物（氧化铝）的存在也会增加活性，但程度小于可还原支撑物。较高的可还原性导致较高的TOF数，但反应条件下的氧化态与可还原性不对应。在分子氧下，支撑的钒氧化物催化剂对乙烷氧化的支撑酸性的影响已被探索。酸碱性和氧化还原性都会影响乙烷的转化。前者与烃的活化有关，但激活氧（同位素交换）的能力提供了额外的反应性。将铌酸添加到钒钛催化剂中会改变氧化还原性质，增加V2O5/TiO2催化剂的酸性；这会增加对乙烯的选择性。Te的存在促进了V5氧化态，而Pd导致95%的V4。这可能解释了用Pd或Te掺杂后观察到的不同性能。已提出金属Pd对H2的高亲和力解释了乙烯的高选择性。位点隔离在解决选择性问题中起着关键作用，通过促进选择性氧合产物的形成和防止部分氧化产物的进一步降解。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
