ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
J. N. BRONSTED 
University of Copenhagen, Denmark 
TRANSLATED 
BY KARL 
H. SANDVED 
AND VICTOR 
K. LAMER 
Columbia 
Universily, New York, New York 
CONTENTS 
Preface .................................................................. 
231 
Introduction.. 
............................................................ 
231 
I. The influence of solvation in catalysis by hydrions.. .................. 
234 
11. The dual theory of catalysis.. ....................................... 
245 
111. The ionization theory of catalysis 
.................................... 
252 
IV. Primary salt effect, activity and concentration 
....................... 
265 
V. Secondary salt effect.. 
............................................... 
278 
VI. The acid-basic function .............................................. 
2% 
VII. On the strength of acids and bases.. ................................. 
291 
VIII. An extended theory of acid and basic catalysis.,. .................... 
312 
IX. Appendix ............................................................ 
334 
References. ............................................................... 
330 
PREFACE 
The present review is a translation of a monograph: “Om 
Syre- og Base-katalyse” published by the University of Copen- 
hagen September, 1926. The field is covered in the text up to 
March, 1926. 
In order to bring the article up to date a short Appendix has 
been added in which the progress in 1926-1927 has been presented. 
The author is much indebted to Mr. K. H. Sandved and Pro- 
fessor V. K. La Mer for the trouble they have taken in making 
the translation. 
Ih-TRODUCTION 
Acid and basic catalysis constitutes an important chapter in 
the history of physical chemistry. From studies in this field 
originated the chief contributions to our knowledge o
f
 homogene- 
ous catalysis. In the formulation of the laws governing the 
23 
1 
CHEMICAL REYIEWS, YOL. Y, NO. 3 
232 
J. K’. 
BROKSTED 
velocity of chemical reactions in general, investigations of acid 
and basic catalysis have played a conspicuous part as appears 
from the classical investigations of Wilhelmy (180) on the in- 
version of cane sugar by acids and from the various catalytic 
studies by Ostwald (149) and Urech (176). Furthermore con- 
sideration of the phenomena of acid and basic catalysis has con- 
tributed to the understanding of the mechanism o
f
 chemical reac- 
tions in general and also has in many cases been useful in the veri- 
fication of Arrhenius’ theory of electrolytic dissociation (8). 
The ideas of acid and basic catalysis, developed by Arrhenius 
(9, 10, 11, 12) on the basis of his dissociation theory, are still 
commonly recognized as principally correct. The chemist still 
considers the phenomena of acid and basic catalysis as due to 
the effect of hydrogen and hydroxyl ions respectively and makes 
use in numerous ways of such a dependence as a means of dn- 
termining the concentration of these ions. 
This simple conception of catalytic phenomena to which the 
investigations of Arrhenius have led, however, failed to prove 
entirely satisfactory. First, as is natural, certain factors used in 
the theory have on closer examination revealed incompleteness of 
definition. Secondly it must be admitted that the difficulties, 
encountered from the very beginning in the quantitative working 
out of the theory of electrolytic dissociation, have presented them- 
selves with especial emphasis in the field of reaction velocity. 
Arrhenius (11) himself called attention to the difficulties caused 
by such anomalies in the consideration of catalytic phenomena 
from the point of view of electrolytic dissociation: thus for the 
interpretation of the effect of acids on the inversion of cane 
sugar he found it necessary to assume an increase in the “activity” 
of the sugar molecules on addition of the acid besides the ordinary 
catalytic effect of the hydrions. Later on as a result of similar 
difficulties he resorted to formulating the velocity law by means 
of osmotic pressure instead of concentration. 
Other authors, engaged in the field of catalytic phenomena, 
have felt the same difficulties in different ways. 
In the course 
of time numerous attempts have been made to effect a closer ap- 
proach to the experimental data by introducing suitable modifica- 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
233 
tions in the original theory. While most of these attempts have 
failed in presenting decisive results, they have brought about a 
collection of data, which should be of value in future work. The 
influence on the catalytic velocity of reaction produced by addi- 
tion o
f
 salts or more generally by a change in the concentration 
of electrolytes forms the chief basis for these modifying theories. 
It is primarily this conception called “Seutral salt effect” or more 
correctly “Salt effect,” that has given rise to difficulties in the 
interpretation of the kinetic phenomena of reaction. In some 
respects these difficulties when closely studied are quite imaginary. 
In other respects, however, points of great kinetic significance are 
attached to the term “Salt effect,” the understanding of which 
has been rendered possible only by means of the new theory o
f
 
ionic solutions, which stands out as one of the chief advances in 
the recent development of modern chemistry. 
In addition, views of interest for acid and basic catalysis have 
been developed in other directions. This applies to the ideas ad- 
vanced on the state of the catalyst in solution and to the theory 
ascribing catalysis to the ionization of the substrate or to the 
formation of an intermediate product which reacts spontaneously. 
One of the aims of this review is to give a critical exposition of 
the theories of acid and basic catalysis, without in any way laying 
claim to having attained a complete survey of this intricate sub- 
ject. The intention is furthermore to give a brief outline o
f
 the 
modern views on catalytic salt effect. Finally there will be given 
certain ideas and considerations concerning the phenomena of 
acid and basic catalysis based upon views of the acid-basic func- 
tion which have recently been advanced and for the development 
of which the catalytic decomposition of nitramide and certain 
analogous reactions like the mutarotation of glucose have fur- 
nished the experimental foundation. 
The much disputed question as to a general definition of the 
concepts of catalysis and catalyst will not be treated in this paper, 
the laws governing the catalytic processes discussed here being 
considered as quite identical to those valid for other homogene- 
ous reactions. Thus for example the catalytic decomposition 
of cane sugar by hydrions will be considered as a bimolecular 
234 
J. N. BRONSTED 
reaction between the sugar molecule and the hydrion, for which 
the differential equation for bimolecular reactions is supposed to 
be applicable to the same extent as for non-catalytic reactions. 
The fact that one of the reacting molecules, viz. the catalyst, is 
to be found among the products of the reaction according to our 
view cannot possibly affect the laws governing the process. 
I. THE INFLUENCE OF SOLVATION IN CATALYSIS BY HYDRIONS 
Arrhenius’ theory of acid catalysis as a catalysis caused by 
hydrions does not distinguish between the hydrion in the free 
and in the hydrated state. When we realize that the water-free 
and the hydrated hydrion in reality are two entirely different 
molecules, the question then arises as to their relative r61e in the 
hydrion catalysis. Resulting differences in the effects o
f
 the two 
ion species might perhaps offer a possibility o
f
 interpreting some 
of the anomalies, brought about by addition of salt or by some 
other change in the solvent. 
Lapworth (66, 122) was the first to subject this question to a 
thorough treatment. According to his theory, which in many 
ways may seem plausible, the catalytic effect in acid catalysis is 
due solely to the non-hydrated or more generally to the non- 
solvated hydrion. The solvated hydrion is supposed to be inac- 
tive. Nowadays it is well known, that the free hydrion- 
an electron-free nucleus-is 
altogether different from any other 
chemical molecule, and it might therefore appear well founded to 
attribute special catalytic properties to the hydrion. On the other 
hand this would give the hydrion an unique position which is not 
supported by experimental evidence. The hydroxyl ion for 
instance, is equally as effective in catalytic processes as the hy- 
drion. 
The most important experimental foundation on which Lap- 
worth’s theory is developed comprises the results obtained by 
studying the effect of small quantities of water on saponification 
and other reactions catalyzed by hydrions, for example the hydra- 
xobenzene-benxidene arrangement and the bromination of ke- 
tones in non-aqueous solutions. About 1895 
H. Goldschmidt 
(72, 73) showed that hydrion catalysis in alcoholic solution is 
.
.
.
 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
235 
considerably depressed on addition of water. In subsequent 
papers he has studied the phenomenon thoroughly and developed 
a theory, which will be extensively dealt with below. Other 
authors have also (179, 105, 24, 175, 50) examined the influence 
exerted by water on various reactions catalyzed by hydrions in 
alcoholic and related solutions, and in this way have in the main 
confirmed the existence of the anti-catalytic effect of very small 
concentrations of water. 
Lapworth explains the effect by the assumption that most of 
the hydrions in aqueous solution are hydrated having taken up a 
molecule of water to form the ion H30+. In accordance with 
recent authors this ion will be termed here the oxonium ion, its 
great importance in the theory of acid and basic catalysis being 
further developed in chapters 6, 7 and 8. The free hydrion is, 
however, supposed to exist in the solution in small quantities, 
according to the following equilibrium: 
H
3
0
f
 
Ft HzO + 
H+. 
In an alcoholic solution for instance, an increase in the concentra- 
tion of water will diminish the quantity o
f
 free hydrions, these 
being now transformed into oxonium ions. The depression o
f
 the 
ea talytic action will, according to Lapworth, be naturally ex- 
plained as due to a decrease in concentration of the effective 
cahalyst. 
The bromination of acetone may be taken as an example. The 
partial reaction which is measurable kinetically and which is 
strongly catalyzed by hydrions, consists most probably in the 
enolization (121) of the acetone, the depression caused by addition 
of water being about proportional to the quantity added. Only 
2 per cent of water is necessary for reducing the velocity to 1/10 
of the original value in a water free solvent. 
Lapworth tries to support his views on the free hydrion by 
some other methods as well. For this purpose Hardman and 
Lapworth (92) have carried out a series of E.M.F. measurements 
in cells of the following type: 
H I HC1 I 
HC1 
I H, 
Alcohol 
Alcohol + 
Water 
236 
J. N. BRONSTED 
in which the quantity of water is small as compared to the quan- 
tity of alcohol, but great as compared to that of hydrochloric acid. 
The E.M.F. of such a cell is given by the formula: 
P 
E = R T l n -  
P
O
 
where P is what the author calls the “availability of the acid,” 
a term which evidently is identical with what we now would call 
the activity o
f
 the free hydrion. The measurements conform 
with t,he expression : 
r 
- 
P 
PO r + w  
- 
-- 
where T is a constant and w denotes the molarity of water in the 
alcoholic solution. 
In reality a formula in agreement with (1) can easily be derived 
from the classical law o
f
 mass action. By using the following 
three equations 
CH+ 
CC~H~OH 
= K1, 
CCiHsOHi+ 
cH+ CHiO 
CHaOL 
-- 
- 
K 2 ,  
and 
C C ~ H ~ O H ~ +  
+ 
C H ~ O +  
= CH+ 
where CHt is the total concentration of acid, assuming complete 
dissociation we get : 
C C ~ H ~ O H  
r 
=- 
cHt (alcohol +water) - 
K1 
- 
CH+ (alcohol) 
CCiHsOH 
CHzO 
r + 
CHiO’ 
+- 
K
1
 
Kz 
According to the terminology proposed in Chapter 7, T is the con- 
ventional dissociation constant in alcoholic solutions. The hy- 
pothesis of the existence of the free hydrion is consequently not 
ACID AX’D BASIC CATALYSIS 
237 
in conflict with the results of the E.M.F. measurements. Lap- 
worth considers this to be a support of the theory attaching im- 
portance especially to the fact (124) that the two catalytic con- 
stants k and k
,
 for different catalytic reactions with and without 
addition of water respectively follow a formula analogous to (1) : 
r has here approximately the same value as given by the E.M.F. 
measurements. 
Lapworth’s theory has been given much credit and has been 
supported chiefly by English authors (42, 46). It will be shown, 
however, that there are decisive difficulties opposed to the theory. 
In their first paper Fitzgerald and Lapworth call attention to 
the conflict between their views and those of Goldschmidt, with- 
out making any effort to test the relative soundness of the two 
theories. Goldschmidt, who as before mentioned, was the first 
to observe the anti-catalytic effect of water, explains the phe- 
nomenon by ascribing the catalytic effect to the hydrogen ion- 
alcoholate (83, 74, 80). The effect of the water depends conse- 
quently upon a partial decomposition of the alcoholate convert- 
ing the hydrion into the oxonium ion according to the scheme : 
CzH50HZ + 
HzO 
CzHjOH + 
H30+ 
In this system the alcohol serves as the solvent and hence may be 
considered to be present in constant concentration. The mass 
action law applied to this system yields: 
C C ~ H ~ O H ~ + C H ~ O  
- 
- 
r. 
CHaO+ 
where r as previously mentioned corresponds to the dissociation 
constant o
f
 the oxonium ion in alcoholic solutions. I
f
 CH+ 
means the total hydrion concentration regardless of solvation, 
the following equation is easily derived : 
r 
- 
CC2H,OH*+ 
CH+ 
r + 
w 
238 
J. N. BRONSTED 
If the hydrion alcoholate functions as the catalyst this equation 
may be transformed into the following: 
k 
r 
- 
k0 = r + 
CHzO 
k 
and k
,
 being the velocity constants in alcoholic solutions with 
and without water respectively. The assumption of the hydrion 
alcoholate as the active catalyst then leads to the same formula 
for the anti-catalytic effect as does the assumption of the catalytic 
activity of the free hydrion. This is also a simple consequence 
of the fact that the hydrion alcoholate and the free hydrion must 
be present in the alcoholic solution in a constant ratio with re- 
spect to their concentrations. The existing data cannot therefore 
be interpreted as verifying one of these theories at the expense 
of the other; they both explain equally well the experimental 
facts. 
Furthermore it should be noted that the E.M.F. measurements 
mentioned above can not possibly prove anything as to the real 
existence of the free hydrion. The idea is frequently met that the 
validity of Nernst’s formula (145) for the electromotive force, from 
which formula (1) is derived virtually presupposes a real concen- 
tration of the ion under consideration. However, a well defined 
chemical potential, for instance o
f
 a metal in a salt solution, may 
be obtained, even when no appreciable concentration of the metal 
ions exists in the solution. In the numerous instances in which 
Nernst’s formula leads to absurd ion concentration-as 
for in- 
stance in the case of a copper electrode in a potassium cyanide 
solution-it 
is therefore unjustified to consider the reaction 
metal e 
metal ion + e, 
where 8 
denotes the electron, as always determining kinetically 
the potential at the electrode. Under such circumstances and 
also in general the potential between electrode and electrolyte 
might be defined by rneans of more indirect reactions. For the 
copper-copper-cyanide system we might for instance have : 
C U + C S - @ C U C S +  e 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
239 
or 
c u  + 
2CN- F? Cu(CK)2- + €3 
As regards the hydrion potential in presence of water the indi- 
rect kinetic reaction: 
H+HzOF?H30++ €3 
can just as well as the direct reaction: 
HF?H++ 8 
account for the existence of a well defined potential at the 
electrode. 
The definition of the potential cannot therefore give any in- 
formation as to the real existence of the water-free hydrion. 
Nor can the agreement between the electromotive force and the 
catalytic measurements from Lapworth's point of view be o
f
 
decisive importance, as may also be seen from the thermodynamic 
scheme of equilibrium : 
AH+ 
A + 
H+, 
where A is the alcohol molecule, or more generally, the molecule 
of the solvent employed. According to this scheme the concen- 
tration of the hydrion alcoholate is proportional to the concen- 
tration calculated for the free hydrion. The relation between 
catalytic activity and electromotive force, which is derived if the 
free hydrion is supposed to be the active molecule in the catalysis 
as well as in the creation o
f
 the electromotive force, will conse- 
quently be maintained if the hydrion alcoholate be considered 
active in both respects. 
It is thus impossible on this basis to choose between Lapworth's 
and Goldschmidt's theories, although other considerations might 
be taken into account to show the doubtful character of ascribing 
any kinetic significance to the free hydrogen nucleus. It is hard 
to believe that the hydrogen nucleus with one positive charge and 
without protecting electrons should be capable o
f
 existence amidst 
other molecules possessing electron systems acting as screens 
against the surroundings. This impossibility is according to 
240 
J. N. BRONSTED 
Fajans (62) manifested by the enormous heat effect of 232,000 
cal. produced when the free hydrion unites with water. 
I
f
 this 
heat quantity is supposed to represent the affinity of the hydrion 
for water-as 
is approximately correct, the concentration o
f
 the 
free hydrion in an acid solution will be calculated equal to 10-150. 
This calculation is based upon an application of the gas laws which 
naturally break down at these concentrations, but no doubt the 
order o
f
 magnitude of the figure demonstrates that the free hy- 
drion cannot be present in aqueous solutions at kinetically 
significant concentration. The catalytic effect must conse- 
quently be assigned to the hydrion hydrate or the oxonium- 
ion, while in alcoholic solutions the hydrion alcoholate should be 
considered as the active catalyst in agreement with the view put 
forward by Goldschmidt. 
Lapworth’s theory on acid catalysis has recently been taken up 
by F. 0. Rice (154) in his work on “chemical reactivity.’’ Rice’s 
views are based chiefly upon considerations regarding the tem- 
perature coefficient of catalytic reactions for which he takes ad- 
vantage of Arrhenius’ (11) 
well known theory of the dependence of 
the velocity of reaction upon the temperature, in which the 
equilibrium between the molecules of the substrate in normal and 
“active” state is supposed to be displaced in favor of the active 
molecules with increased temperature. This view is applied by 
Rice to the catalyst, whereby the shift of the equilibrium: 
H+ + 
water 7=! 
K+- hydrate 
is made to account for the dependence of the reaction upon varia- 
tions in temperature. The solvent is not supposed to take part in 
the reaction and the whole catalytic effect is supposed to be ex- 
clusively due to the free hydrion. 
The author presupposes (apparently as an obvious fact) that 
the temperature coefficient of all reactions belonging to this class 
must be the same provided the theory is true and he postulates, 
moreover, that the reactions catalyzed by hydrions and hydroxyl 
ions can be resolved into comparatively few classes. It is men- 
tioned as a verification of the theory that theexperimentally 
determined temperature coel4icient k350/k2jo 
in acid catalysis of 
ACID ATYD BASIC CATALYSIS 
24 
1 
esters is found to be between 2.2 and 2.5, while this identity can 
be explained from the old theories only by ascribing the same heat 
of activation to all the reacting molecular species. The tempera- 
ture coefficient for the simple non-hydrolytic reactions catalyzed 
by hydrions is according to Rice: 
3.08. 
k
3
5
0
 
- =  
k
2
5
’
 
This theory of the free hydrion as the only important factor 
in acid catalysis is extended further in deriving more general 
conclusions: The chemical reactions, pictured by the usual stoi- 
chiometric schemes, are as a rule far from giving the real mecha- 
nism. Products of dissociation and chemical compounds with the 
solvent, although present in exceedingly small concentrations, 
may be the true participants in the reaction. Such an assumption 
suffices for explaining apparent reaction anomalies, for the inter- 
pretation of which it will be unnecessary, therefore, to ascribe a 
kinetic effect to the surrounding medium, 
In addition to what has been said before of the probable con- 
centration of the free hydrion in water solution, there are further 
objections to which this “theory of reactivity” can be exposed. 
The contention that the theory of the free hydrion requires the 
same temperature coeficient for all simple reactions catalyzed 
by hydrions, can hardly be maintained because in that case the 
temperature coefficient 
for all bimolecular reactions involving the 
hydrion and generally also for all reactions with one common mole- 
cule ought to be the same. The identity of the temperature coeffi- 
cients, experimentally found, cannot therefore be considered as 
evidence in favor of Lapworth’s theory. Nor can the assumption 
that all reactions catalyzed by hydrions possess temperature 
coefficients belonging to comparatively few groups be taken a
s
 
supporting the theory. 
The hydrolytic decompositions catalyzed by hydrions may be 
considered as a separate group, different from the non-hydrolytic 
reactions mentioned above. In order to explain why the coeffi- 
cient falls from 3.08 to 2.4 on proceeding to this type of reaction, 
Rice assumes the process to take place between the free hydrion 
24 
2 
J. N. BRONSTED 
and the hydrate of the substrate, at the same t‘me pointing cut 
that only a small quantity of the latter (dependent upon the tem- 
perature) is present in the hydrated state. This explanation will 
not fit, however, unless the decomposition of the hydrate varies 
in the same manner with the temperature for all hydrolytic 
decompositions, and this is again tantamount to the introduction 
o
f
 a constant heat o
f
 activation. While it is admitted that Rice, 
by making these assumptions, can arrive at the same temperature 
coefficients for all hydrolytic decompositions, the existence o
f
 the 
“comparatively” few groups of temperature coefficients has not by 
any means been proved in this way from theoretical views on acid 
catalysis 
. 
The more general considerations made by Rice on the great 
difference between stoichiometric and kinetic conditions are no 
doubt quite sound. This question, which has been thoroughly 
treated by Kendall(109,112,110), has been generally recognized, 
although it might not always have been sufficiently respected. It 
ought to be emphasized, however, that the kinetic equations often 
are quite independent of whether the real equation or a thermo- 
dynamically equivalent equation is employed. (See section 3.) 
Be this as it may, it still remains unjustified tomake the reactivity 
of the molecules independent of the medium in which the reaction 
proceeds. 
Mention ought also to be made of the extension o
f
 the Lapworth- 
Rice theory of acid catalysis to account for the corresponding 
phenomena in basic catalysis. This extension made by Rice 
gives a comparison between the two kinds o
f
 catalysis. The 
hydroxyl ion is supposed to be almost completely hydrated, and the 
catalytic effect considered as due to the small amount o
f
 non- 
hydrated hydroxyl ions. Since the hydration tendency is much 
greater for the hydrion than for the hydroxyl ion the non-hydrated 
part will assume a higher value for the latter. The concentration 
of free hydrions in “neutral” solution will consequently be much 
lower than the concentration of the free hydroxyl ions although the 
hydrated ions are present in practically equal amounts. 
There may be some reality in these qualitative considerations. 
Rice, however, makes the additional assumption that the real 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
243 
catalysts in acid and basic catalysis are of the same efficiency. I
f
 
the real catalysts were the hydrated hydrions and hydroxyl ions, 
acid and basic catalysis ought then to he the same at the “neutral 
point.” ,
4
 solution, being “stoichiometrically neutral,” would 
also be “catalytically neutral.” 
The fact that the reaction 
minimum, or the stability maximum (Euler), for many reactions 
lies beyond the neutral point, for example, close to pH = 5, is 
explained on the basis of the above assumption of the free ions 
being the active catalysts, whose concentrations at the neutral 
point are supposed to be quite different. The two water free 
catalysts are present in equal concentrations at the point of 
reaction minmum or at the “catalytic neutral point’’ as it is 
called by Rice; the location of this point on the acid side being due 
to the greater hydration of the hydrion as compared to that of the 
hydroxyl ion. 
These considerations are, however, largely arbitrary. The 
assumption that acid and basic catalysts are equally effective is 
not well founded and may rather be considered as highly improb- 
able. The interpretation given o
f
 the reaction minimum must 
therefore be rejected as being theoretically unsound. It is more- 
over well known that no fixed location can be attributed to this 
point, although it seems to lie about pH = 5 in many cases. A 
great number of reactions are recorded where the effect of hy- 
drions and hydroxyl ions is altogether different. Ntramide is 
completely unstable in alkaline solutions, while quite insensitive 
to acids. The salts of nitrosohydroxyl aminesulphonic acid are 
decomposed instantaneously in acid solutions while being reason- 
ably stable to alkalis. Numerous examples of this kind exist, and 
are quite incompatible with an assumption of the same catalytic 
effect for the hydrion as for the hydroxyl ion, whether water- 
free or in the hydrated state. 
An objection of more formal character may be added. As 
mentioned above, Rice formulates the concept of “catalytic neu- 
trality” in relation to that of “stoichiometric neutrality.” 
Stoichiometric neutrality is neutrality in the sense used by the 
chemist to denote the state in which the concentrations of hy- 
drions and hydroxyl ions attain the same value. As pointed 
244 
J. N. BRONSTED 
out elsewhere (30) it is intrinsically illegitimate, however, to make 
this conception of neutrality imply any sort of counterbalancing 
effects, such as in the case of electric neutrality. 
The reason is 
that ideas like acidity and basicity, strength of acid and strength 
of base do not have any common measure. Acidity can only be 
determined in relation to another acidity, basicity to another 
basicity. It is obvious that the acidity will decrease and the 
basicity increase, when sodium hydroxide is added to hydro- 
chloric acid. It may be said that the acidity is diminished at the 
same rate as the basicity is increased, but the point where they 
become identical cannot be fixed, because this question has no 
logical sense. 
There seems therefore no reason why the concept of stoichio- 
metric neutrality should be generalized further into the field of 
kinetics. The common neutrality concept is based upon the idea 
of expressing equality of two effects of opposite kind, while the 
effects attaining the same value in the catalytic neutral point 
are entirely of the same kind. It is therefore advisable to omit the 
concept of catalytic neutrality. 
Although this is a purely formal question, it ought not to be 
dismissed as immaterial. The possibilities for development i
n
 a 
theoretical field are often dependent to a considerable extent upon 
suitable definitions and logical conceptions, whereas natural 
progress can be hampered or led astray if the definitions are lack- 
ing in clarity and cogency. 
Nothing has been revealed in the theory of catalysis by adopt- 
ing the theory of Lapworth, which can modify the result arrived at 
above as to the importance of solvation. Goldschmidt’s views, 
in which the catalysis is ascribed to the hydrionhydrate in aque- 
ous solutions, to the alcoholate in alcoholic solutions, to the anilin- 
ium ion (81) 
inaniline solutions etc. must still be considered to offer 
the best foundation for a theory of catalysis. This theory, so to 
speak, is imposed upon us by its own force, when we realize that 
the free hydrion is incapable of existence in any solvent and conse- 
quently either has to remain in the original acid molecule or to 
combine with the molecules of the solvent. 
This mode of thinking leads to the assumption of different 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
245 
“hydrions” in different solvents, so that hydrion catalysis in 
different systems is really produced by different catalysts. 
This 
result is, however, as shown in Chapter 8, only the first step in 
the establishment of a moregeneral theory of acid and basic 
catalysis. 
1
1
.
 THE DUAL THEORY OF CATALYSIS 
The observations made by Blanksma (20) and later byilcree 
and Johnson (5), studying the transformation of acetyl chloro- 
amino benzene into p-chloracetanilide : 
GH30 
c2H30)N-C6H, 
+ 
‘N-C6H4C1 
c1 
H/ 
are among the first experimental data to have contributed to the 
formulation of the theory of catalysis later called the dual theory. 
This reaction is catalyzed by hydrochloric acid, but the velocity of 
reaction is proportional to the square of the acid concentration 
and not to the first power as in simple hydrion catalysis. I
f
 
the phenomenon be interpreted as an effect due to the HC1 mole- 
cule, a second power law will be obtained, provided that no other 
substances add to the catalytic effect. The more general con- 
clusion has been drawn that the hydrion is not the only catalyst in 
acid catalysis, a greater or smaller effect being ascribed also to the 
undissociated acid molecules. 
By studying the reaction mentioned above, many investigators 
(6, 148, 156, 96) have been able to show that the mechanism o
f
 
the total reaction is more complicated and that the partial reac- 
tion determining the velocity is catalyzed by hydrions as well 
as by chloride-ions, which kinetically amounts to an HCl-cataly- 
sis. This reaction is not suitable, therefore, as a type of the 
ordinary hydrion catalysis, being more related to such reactions 
as the decomposition of diazo acetic ester by HCl (25, 67) and 
the addition of HC1 by quinone (50). These processes will not 
proceed unless chloride ions as well as hydrions are present. 
Investigations on catalytic salt eflect in alcoholic as well as in 
aqueous solutions have given the dual theory a more solid founda- 
246 
J. N. BRONSTED 
tion. On the whole, the development in theories on acid and 
basic catalysis might to a great extent be considered as a reflec- 
tion of the interpretations given in the courseof time for the 
influence of salt upon the velocity of reaction. The dual theory, 
as formulated by Senter (163) and Lapworth (124), 
has gained sup- 
port from many sides, in fact it is represented in several text books 
(128, 181) as an unquestionable reality. It must be realized, 
however, that the results o
f
 the theory are due to wrong inter- 
pretations of experimental data. 
Since the conditions in aqueous and alcoholic solutions are 
in a quantitative sense very different, it appears natural to deal 
first with the simpler aqueous solutions. The dual theory has 
been brought forth chiefly by H. S. Taylor (168, 169, 170, 171) 
and Dawson (44,45) 
and his coworkers. Taylor worked especially 
on the hydrolysis o
f
 esters, catalyzed by strong or moderately 
strong acids with and without addition of neutral salts. By 
using hydrochloric acid as a catalyst and potassium chloride as 
neutral salt he thus found for five different esters the ratio.between 
the catalytic constants in 0.1N HC1 + 1.ON KC1 and in 0.1N 
HC1 without any KC1 to be 1.24, the deviations from this value 
amounting only to a few per cent. 1N KC1 consequently causes 
the velocity to rise 24 per cent. The ratio between the catalytic 
constant of the HC1-molecule and the hydrion can be calculated 
if the increase in undissociated HC1, brought about by addition o
f
 
KC1 and determined by conductivity measurements, is made to 
account for the effect observed. The experiments gave an 
average value 2.9 for this ratio. Other concentrations o
f
 the acid 
gave somewhat lower values, yielding the final average of 2.77, 
whereby the catalytic effect of the HCI-molecule would be about 
three times that of the hydrion. 
It will be seen that this explanation necessitates the assumption 
that the salt effect would be zero if no increase 
in the concentration 
of the undissociated HC1 had taken place on addition of KC1. 
This assumption, however, is absolutely without foundation. 
Changing the solution from 0 to 1N 
KCImeans a very serious alter- 
ation o
f
 the medium kinetically. For instance Geffcken’s (71) 
solubility measurements show that the activity coefficient of a 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
247 
non-electrolyte like oxygen, is subject to a change o
f
 about 38 
per cent on addition of NaCl up to 1N concentration. It seems 
plausible, therefore, to interpret the catalytic effect mentioned 
above as a pure kinetic effect, independent o
f
 the formation o
f
 
new molecules. This explanation conforms much better to the 
modern view on electrolytes, in which the hydrochloric acid under 
these conditions is supposed to be completely dissociated. 
A more direct corroboration o
f
 this explanation may moreover 
be found in another experimental series by Taylor. An almost 
constant ratio, varying from 1.24 to 1.20, will be found if the effect 
o
f
 1N KC1 on the catalysis by hydrochloric acid in concentrations 
varying from 0.01N to 0.5N is calculated on the assumption o
f
 
constant hydrion concentrations. These values of the ratio will 
amount to 1.42 and 1.55 respectively, Le., much more diverging 
figures if the hydrion concentration is supposed to be reduced by 
addition o
f
 KCl according to the classical method o
f
 calculation. 
This is only a single example o
f
 the simplification brought about 
in the field o
f
 kinetics by employing the stoichiometric concen- 
tration o
f
 strong electrolytes instead o
f
 introducing conductivity 
corrections or activities. This last point will be thoroughly 
treated in Chapter 6. 
The calculations by Snethlage (165) on Palmaer’s (150) in- 
version experiments are subject to similar objections as were 
brought against those by Taylor. The inversion velocity caused 
bv 0.1N KC1 is about 6 per cent higher than what is calculated 
from the velocity at 
concentrations lower than 0.01N. The cataly- 
tic effect may now be calculated if this 6 per cent increase is sup- 
posed to be due to the increase in undissociated HC1. The salt 
effect may, however, just as well be interpreted kinetically. 
The 
latter view seems to be supported by the minor variations in the 
inversion constant at concentrations lying between 0.01N and 
0.001N HC1, because the formation o
f
 catalytically active HCl 
within this concentration range would give a considerably higher 
variation than what is observed. 
Taylor’s calculations lead also in the case o
f
 tri- and dichloro- 
acetic acid to a catalytic effect o
f
 the undissociated molecules, al- 
though much less than for HCI. 
The experimental error is much 
248 
J
.
 N. BRONSTED 
greater for these weak electrolytes, however, while at the same 
time the application of the conductivity method and the fact that 
the primary and secondary salt effect are not taken into account 
make the results very problematic. 
Results of somewhat greater significance for the dual theory 
have been obtained by H. M. Dawson (43, 44, 
45) 
and his co- 
workers from investigations on enolization of acetone catalyzed 
by acids. The catalytic effect o
f
 certain organic acids was studied 
at various concentrations of acid, with and without addition of 
the corresponding salt. The results with monochloroacetic acid 
are of special interest. The ratio between the catalytic effect 
and the hydrion-concentration undergoes a considerable increase, 
when the concentration of the system with respect to 
either acid or 
salt is increased, this effect being much greater here than in the 
case of ester hydrolysis. The effect might be ascribed to the 
undissociated molecules, as assumed by Dawson. In order to 
enable any definite conclusions it is however absolutely necessary 
to take account also of the salt effect mentioned before, as well 
as of the influence of the monochloroacetic acid in changing the 
medium. 
The catalytic values for stronger acids like trichloroacetic, 
trichlorbutyric and naphthalene sulphuric acids etc. are so uncer- 
tain that no importance can be attached to them, the reasons 
being the same as in the case o
f
 hydrochloric acid. 
Dawson and Reimann (45) point out that their results do not 
agree with the investigations by Arrhenius (12) on the inversion 
of cane sugar with and without addition of the corresponding 
neutral salt. This is true also when the calculations are carried 
out according to more recent views. It seems as if the effect, for 
instance, of acetic acid on the inversion velocity is determined 
only by the hydrion concentration, if the various salt effects are 
taken into account, It must be considered, however, that acetic 
acid is much weaker than monochloroacetic acid, investigated by 
Dawson and Reimann, while also the nature o
f
 the catalyzed reac- 
tions certainly influences the law governing the process of cataly- 
sis. The importance of the latter point will be taken up in one 
o
f
 the following chapters. 
ACID AKD BASIC CATALYSIS 
249 
The catalytic effect of an acid from the viewpoint of the dual 
theory may be expressed by the equation : 
h = kH+CH+ 
-k ~ M C X ,  
where h is the catalytic velocity, kH+, 
kif, CH+ and cnr being the 
catalytic constants and concentrations of the hydrion and the un- 
dissociated acid respectively. Taylor (171) and Snethlage (164) 
have discussed the importance of the dissociation constant K of 
the acid, and the former has given the following generalization: 
According to this equation kM 
must be greater than kH+ 
for strong 
acids. In certain cases the effect of the hydrion ought to equal 
that of the undissociated acid, and the catalysis would conse- 
quently be independent of the degree of dissociation (78). The 
evidence given in support of this equation is, however, very scant. 
Numerous investigations on the dual theory (1) 
have been car- 
ried out in alcoholic solutions, especially by Goldschmidt (75, 82, 
76, 77), Bredig (23), Snethlage (164, 165) and Acree (3). Many 
of the results obtained give apparently good reasons for the main- 
tenance of the dual theory. The calculations are, however, 
based upon the classical mass action law, and they generally 
assume the complete absence of kinetic salt effects. In both of 
these respects the alcoholic solutions deviate more from ideality 
than do water solutions, and therefore the results obtained on this 
basis must be considered very critically. 
In the development of his theory on strong electrolytes Bjer- 
rum (17) has pointed out that the catalytic velocity using strong 
acids is generally proportional to the total concentration of the 
acid, and he finds this to be an important evidence in favor of 
complete dissociation of strong electrolytes. In applying these 
points of view to Goldschmidt and Thuesen’s (82) investigation on 
esterification of weak acids by using methyl alcohol as a solvent 
and picric and hydrochloric acids as catalysts he finds reasonable 
values for the ion activity in alcoholic solutions by assuming the 
250 
J. N. BRONSTED 
hydrion to be the true catalyst. Goldschmidt himself later on 
(80) expressed doubt as to the applicability of the dual theory in 
the catalysis by strong acids in alcohol. 
Similar results will be obtained by going through the work of 
Snethlage, which has often been considered as being of particular 
importance for the dual theory for alcoholic solutions. Mention 
will be made here of his application of Bredig’s diazo acetic ester 
catalysis in absolute alcohol at constant concentrations o
f
 picric 
acid on addition of varying quantities of p-toluenepicrate and re- 
lated organic picrates. The velocity of reaction proved to de- 
crease with increasing concentration of picrate as the incomplete 
dissociation of picric acid in alcohol was further depressed. The 
decrease in velocity was comparatively slight, however, and could 
not be made to approach zero asymptotically even at high con- 
centrations of picric acid as ought to have been the case if the 
classical laws were valid and the hydrion alone catalyzed the re- 
action. On the contrary by plotting the velocity against the 
reciprocal value of the picrate concentration as abscissa, Sneth- 
lage could extrapolate a value of the velocity equal to 0.013 
at zero abscissa, while the acid without any picrate gave 0.058. 
The velocity could consequently not be reduced below 22 per cent 
of the initial value. The limiting value found in this way was 
attributed to the undissociated picric acid. 
It will be shown later, however, that the dissociation of a weak 
acid is the more depeqdent upon the total salt concentration of 
the solution, the lower the dielectric constant of the solvent. In 
aqueous solution a weak acid at 0.1N salt concentration will pos- 
sess a degree of dissociation twice as high as would have been the 
case if no salt effect had been present. The effect will be much 
greater when ethyl alcohol is employed as a solvent, the dielectric 
constant being only about one third of that for water. In this 
case the dissociation will be about ten times as great as calculated 
from the classical law of mass action. The catalytic effect at 
high concentrations of picrate need not therefore be, due to the 
undissociated acid but might as well be interpreted as a hydrion 
effect. The extrapolation to an infinitely large salt concentration 
is under these circumstances misleading and fails to give any 
information whatsoever as to the effect of the undissociated acid. 
ACID AKD BASIC CATALYSIS 
251 
A new calculation of the experiments of Snethlage is therefore 
needed. Our knowledge of the dependence of the dissociation 
upon salt concentration in ethyl alcohol is not sufficient for 
such a calculation, except in extremely dilute solution, and we 
can therefore only indicate that these experiments are not in 
conflict with the assumption that the diazo ethyl acetate reaction 
in alcohol solutions is catalyzed only by hydrions. 
The principles for calculating the shift in equilibrium, which 
have been of kinetic influence in Snethlage’s experiments, will be 
given in the chapter on the secondary kinetic salt effect. It will 
suffice to refer to the general existence of this effect without go- 
ing into further details, since such a secondary salt effect 
has been 
present in all catalytic experiments on incompletely dissociated 
acids in alcoholic solution, also in the exact and exhaustive ma- 
terial produced by Goldschmidt and his eo-workers. 
The ideas characteristic of the dual theory for acid catalysis 
have been transferred to basic catalysis by S. F. Acree (
4
)
.
 He 
concludes from previous measurements in aqueous solutions and 
from his own measurements in alcoholic solutions that the cataly- 
tic effect is not only due to the hydroxyl ion or to the C2H50- 
-ion 
but also to the “undissociated bases” like NaOH and 
NaOC2H5 
just as in the reaction between ethyl iodide and potas- 
sium ethylate both the latter as well as the ethylate ion are sup- 
posed to take part in the reaction (63). These views have brought 
forth extensive and important experimental material by Xcree and 
his eo-workers, but what has been said before of the experimental 
data on acid catalysis as a support o
f
 the dual theory applies 
equally well to Acree’s measurements on basic catalysis. These 
experiments can only be made to fit the dual theory by neglecting 
the secondary and primary salt effects, known to exist. 
Finally the views recently given by Hantzsch (90, 91) on the 
nature of acid and basic catalysis should be mentioned briefly. 
Hantzsch criticizes severely the importance usually attached to 
the dissociation as a measure of the strength of the acids, although 
he is not really opposed to the electrolytic dissociation theory. 
The dissociation, which a strong acid undergoes on solution in 
water involves, according to his view, both a depression of the 
, 
252 
J. N. BROXSTED 
acid properties and a levelling down of the great differences, dis- 
played by the acids when in pure state. Hence the pure undis- 
sociated acids ought to possess a stronger catalytic effect than the 
dissociated aqueous solutions. This view is thus related to the 
dual theory of catalysis, although it was developed on a different 
basis. 
However, while the dual theory has been restricted to the com- 
parative study of catalysis in a definite solvent, and consequently 
has been able to work with the usual unprecise definition of acid 
and base strength, the Hantzsch theory is designed to apply to all 
solvents. It is quite crucial to this, theory, therefore, that 
Hantzsch employs a completely undefined conception of acid 
strength. H. v. Halban (88, 89) has subjected this theory to a 
thorough criticism, to which here only reference can be made. 
1
1
1
.
 THE IONIZATION THEORY OF CATALYSIS 
It is in many respects a reasonable idea to try to correlate the 
catalytic effect and the tendency of the catalyzed molecules to 
form more or less definite compounds with the catalyst. Such 
conceptions have appeared repeatedly in the development of reac- 
tion kinetics. Kastle (108) thus explains the catalytic effect o
f
 
the hydrion by assuming the formation of an intermediate prod- 
uct between hydrion and catalyzed molecule and the subsequent 
spontaneous decomposition of the product formed. This view 
has been taken up by many authors, especially by Euler and 
Stieglitz, who have shown how to bring the theory into agree- 
ment with the experimental data. 
In most of the reactions catalyzed by acids and bases, the sub- 
strate is electrically neutral and will therefore acquire an electric 
charge on addition of or reaction with hydrogen or hydroxyl 
ions. Since the assumption of such ion formation as a prelimi- 
nary of the reaction itself is characteristic of the theory dealt with 
in this chapter this can appropriately be termed the ionization 
theory of catalysis. It seems practical to maintain this term also 
for the case of the substrate itself being already electrically 
charged. 
As early as 1899 Euler (51, 54) 
launched the view that catalytic 
ACID A&-D BASIC CATALYSIS 
253 
effect is always due to an increase in the concentration of reacting 
ions on addition of catalyst, basing this idea upon the fact that 
ionic reactions as distinguished from reactions between neutral 
molecules proceed instantaneously or in an immeasureably short 
time. Related theories have also been supported by other authors 
(131, 117, 120). The salt effect is explained by Euler (51) as an 
increased ionization of the reacting substances due to a collateral 
increase in the dielectric constant of the system. The ideas 
brought forth by these authors have been important for the de- 
velopment of the ionization hypothesis-as 
demonstrated through 
subsequent papers by Euler and his co-workers-although 
a 
general validity cannot be given to the old conception of ionic 
reactivity as quoted above. 
As an example of the application of the ionization hypothesis, 
the mutarotation of glucose may be taken, a reaction which has 
been subjected to a thorough analysis from different angles by 
numerous investigators. This reaction is catalyzed by hydrions 
a6 well as by hydroxyl ions. 
The velocity at 25°C according to Hudson (99) is given by the 
equation : 
k = 0.0096 + 
0.258 CH+ + 
9750 WH- 
where k is the monomolecular reaction constant, the time being 
expressed in minutes, and CHt and cOH- 
denote the concentration 
of hydrions and hydroxyl ions in the glucose solution. This 
equation shows that the process is composed of three partial reac- 
tions, independent of each other, viz. a spontaneous reaction inde- 
pendent o
f
 the acidity of the solution and two reactions catalyzed 
by hydrions and hydroxyl ions respectively. Riiber (155) has 
shown that the glucose transformation is a balanced reaction giv- 
ing about 36.1 per cent a
:
 glucose and 63.9 per cent p glucose at 
equilibrium. In the preceding equation k 
is consequently equal 
to the sum of the two constants k
,
 and kp corresponding to the 
two transformations a
:
 + 
p and p --j a
:
 for which reason k 
must be 
independent of whether the reaction is started with the a
:
 or with 
the p form, as also shown by Riiber. 
Euler (55, 5G, 60) explains the partial reactions sensitive to 
254 
J
.
 N. BRONSTED 
hydrions and hydroxyl ions on the basis of the ionization theory. 
Since glucose is able to act both as an acid and as a base, it will 
be ionized amphoterically to glucose cations and glucose anions 
on addition of acid and base respectively, and these ions will in 
turn spontaneously break down. Other reactions catalyzed by 
acids or bases such as the decomposition of aceto acetic ester are 
interpreted by Euler (59) in the same manner. 
The acid constant of glucose is approximately known, various 
authors (139, 116) having found values ranging between 10-12 
and 10-13. The addition of base will bring about an ionization 
of the glucose molecule according to the scheme: 
C
6
H
1
2
O
6
 + 
OH- Tf C6H110.3- + 
HzO. 
Application of the mass action law yields: 
CCsHiiOs COH- - 
- 
K, 
CCsHiiOa- 
showing that the spontaneous decomposition of the glucose anion 
obeys the same laws as a bimolecular reaction between glucose 
molecules and hydroxyl ions, 
Basic properties may be attributed to the glucose molecule by 
assuming the existence of the following equilibrium: 
C6H1~06 
f 
H+ 
CsHisO6+, 
showing in the same way that a spontaneous decomposition of the 
positive glucose ion yields the same course of reaction as would 
have been given by the bimolecular reaction between glucose and 
hydrions. Kinetic measurements cannot therefore furnish any 
evidence as to the validity of the ionization theory. 
On the other hand it is not possible merely on the basis of the 
reaction type to refute the theory. Several facts seem to indi- 
cate that in some cases acid and basic catalysis are best interpreted 
from the hypothesis of ionization. It will in other cases, how- 
ever, prove simpler to avoid such an explanation of the catalysis. 
To accept the theory as a general interpretation cannot be justi- 
fied, the reasons being given in a subsequent chapter dealing with 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
255 
a general theory of acid and basic catalysis. An essential fea- 
ture in Euler’s view of catalysis is his idea of ascribing approxi- 
mately the same velocity o
f
 decomposition to the two ions- 
the glucose anion and glucose cation-reacting 
in acid and basic 
solution respectively. From that point of view the difference 
in the behavior of the hydrion and hydroxyl ion as catalysts should 
be due entirely to differences in the magnitude of the acidic and 
basic constant of glucose. 
Such an identity of the two velocities of decomposition seems 
a priori highly improbable. An experimental decision of this 
question is possible from the point of view of the ionization theory, 
provided the acid constant and basic constant of glucose are known. 
It would then be possible to calculate the quantities of glucose 
cation and glucose anion present under different conditions and 
then to make sure whether the ratio between these two velocities 
equals the velocity ratio, The basic constant, however, has not 
as yet been accessible to direct experimental measurement. 
Euler, therefore, simply assuming the correctness of this identity, 
calculates the ratio between the glucose anions and cations in basic 
and acid solutions of glucose, without of course getting any veri- 
fication of his assumption by this procedure. The calculations 
are as follows: 
The law of mass action gives for the two equilibria: 
I
f
 the two solutions have the same cG1: 
The basic constant of dissociation K
B
 can consequently be evalu- 
ated when KA, cH+ 
and cOH- 
are known and the ratio __ 
CG1+ 
is put equal to the ratio between the velocities of the two catalyzed 
reactions. 
On the basis of the theory of the velocity minimum the calcu- 
c
G
1
-
 
256 
J. N. BRONSTED 
lations are as follows. If the ionization theory is valid we may 
write : 
h = 
koCGl + 
klCG1- + 
kzCG1+. 
The velocity minimum is determined by the equation : 
klCG1- = k2CG1+, 
since the product k, cG1-* 
k2 CGlt is constant. 
KA 
and KB: 
By introducing 
The hydrion concentration at the minimum of velocity is conse- 
quently given by : 
The square of the hydrion concentration at the iso-electric point is : 
The catalytic minimum and the iso-electric point will consequently 
coincide, when kl 
= k2, 
i.e. when the anion and the cation ofthe 
glucose are decomposed at the same velocity, as assumed by Euler. 
The basic constant KR 
is thus given by the equation: 
The point of minimum velocity, or the stability maximum, as it 
also has been expressed, plays an important r61e in the investiga- 
tions on the glucose transformation and other reactions carried 
out by Euler and his eo-workers. It has to be remembered, 
however, that the minimum is far from being sharp, the equation 
of Hudson corresponding to a very flat curve; secondary factors 
like salt effect, etc. are therefore likely to cause great displace- 
ments, while at the same time the calculations shown above are 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
257 
subject to the twofold uncertainty of the ionization theory itself 
and of the assumption of the same transformation velocity for 
cation and anion. It is therefore very doubtful whether any real 
significance can be attached to the calculated KB 
values, and equa- 
tion (1) must for the same reasons be considered as exceedingly 
hypothetical. 
Kuhn and Jacob (116) have subscribed to Euler’s opinion in as 
far as they assume the amphoteric character of glucose and a spon- 
taneous decomposition of the glucose ions formed upon action 
with the acid and with the base. But contrary to Euler, they do 
not assume the same reaction constant for the glucose anion as 
for the glucose cation, ascribing to the former about double the 
reaction velocity of the latter. Much stress is laid by the authors 
on this result which in a subsequent article (115) 
is made the basis 
of further theoretical considerations. It is therefore necessary 
to examine this point more closely in order to show the decisive 
misconception involved in the development of their results. 
Both Euler, and Kuhn and Jacob present the dependence of 
the velocity upon the hydrion and the hydroxyl ion concentration 
by means of a k - p,+-diagram, Le., they have employed 
Sorensen hydrion scale as abscissa and the velocity constant as 
ordinate. I
f
 the catalytic effects of the hydrion and the hydroxyl 
ion are proportional to their concentrations-and 
only in this 
case can the ionization theory be maintained-the 
classical theory 
of dissociation will demand complete symmetry of the velocity 
curve in the diagram mentioned. Kuhn and Jacob now allege 
from their measurements that the basic branch of the curve has 
double the slope of that of the acid part and conclude from this 
that the ratio between the velocities is also 2 to 1. This con- 
clusion, however, depends upon a mathematical mistake. I
f
 
Kuhn and Jacob were right in their picture of the slopes, the 
correct inference would be that the velocity for the basic cataly- 
sis is proportional to the square of the hydroxyl ion concentration 
when a first power law is followed for the acid catalysis. The 
curve does not say anything, however, of the relative velocities of 
the two catalytic reactions. The conclusions drawn by Kuhn 
and Jacob are therefore not only unjustified but they are also in 
258 
J. N. BRONSTED 
obvious conflict with their own equation for the catalytic process 
wherein proportionality with respect to both hydrion and hydroxyl 
ion concentration is expressed. 
It is therefore not an exaggeration when Euler, Olander and 
Rudberg in their studies on mutarotation (60) characterize the 
method of Kuhn and Jacob’s calculation as “theoretisch nicht 
einwandsfrei.” The mathematical and graphical procedure em- 
ployed by these authors (60), however, does not seem very con- 
venient either. They use a method of plotting pH+ 
against log k, 
in which k is the constant directly observed comprising all the 
three partial reactions and they seem to interpret this curve as if 
the two branches represented the two partial catalytic reactions. 
However, a simple kinetic law cannot be obtained by introducing 
the logarithm of a velocity constant, representing the sum of two 
partial constants. Such a law can be derived only by introducing 
the logarithm of the partial constant, i.e. by using the term log 
(k - 
ko). On plotting this term against pH+ 
the graph will consist 
of two straight lines of unit slope, showing the velocities to be pro- 
portional to the concentration of the catalysts. The curvature, 
displayed by the curves of Euler, Olander and Rudberg at low 
concentrations of hydrions and hydroxyl ions will then of course 
disappear. 
The results recorded so far are all based upon the application 
of the classical laws for dissociation and equilibrium, in which the 
gas laws are assumed to be valid for dissolved ions, thus justifying 
the expression of the mass action law in terms of concentrations. 
The data, produced hitherto on the kinetics of the glucose trans- 
formation are not sufficiently accurate for the purpose of applying 
the modern concepts to this reaction. An accurate experimental 
investigation of the reaction must, however, necessarily be ac- 
companied by a corresponding theoretical treatment, based upon 
modern kinetic theories. 
In this connection attention should be drawn to the fact that 
the great advantages of the pH+ 
-scale in electrometric measure- 
ments, in which activity and not concentration values of the 
hydrogen ion are furnished are generally not present to the same 
extent i
n
 the field of kinetics, The tendency shown in many 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
259 
recent papers on kinetic questions to use the activity scale in- 
stead of the hydrion concentration scale has only hampered the 
interpretation of these phenomena. The question of activity 
versus concentration will however be taken up in detail in a subse- 
quent chapter, in which the point just mentioned will be further 
elucidated. 
The same views brought forth in the interpretation of the 
glucose transformation have been applied by Euler and his 
eo-workers (57, 58, 107) to other catalytic reactions especially the 
classical ester catalysis and the inversion of cane sugar (56). 
The investigation of the first reaction, which is catalyzed by hy- 
drions as well as by hydroxyl ions, is chiefly directed towards the 
determination of the properties at the stability maximum. 
The hydrolysis of ethyl acetate in aqueous solution in presence 
of a base is, according to Euler’s theory of ionization, dependent 
upon the ionization of the ethyl acetate molecule. Euler and 
Laurin (57) assume sodium hydroxide to react with ethyl acetate 
forming 
,ONa 
‘
O
H
 
CH~--C-OC~HS. 
This compound is presumably taken to be dissociated, so that the 
process really means an addition of hydroxyl ions according to the 
scheme 
: 
1
0
-
 
CH3COOC2H5 
+ 
OH- - 
CH3-CLOC2H5. 
‘
O
H
 
The nature of the positive ethyl acetate ion is not mentioned but 
can most simply be considered as’ 
a direct addition product as 
follows : 
CH3COOCzH5 + 
H+ 
(CH&OOCzHtj, H)+ 
By using the mass action law it becomes evident, however, that 
a bimolecular reaction between the catalyst and the ester molecule 
and a spontaneous reaction of the positive or negative ester ion 
260 
J. N. BRONSTED 
lead up to results which are kinetically identical, As in the 
cases previously considered an agreement between the theory and 
the observed course o
f
 reaction cannot be taken as a support o
f
 
the ionization theory, It has been mentioned already that 
Stieglitz has been one of the foremost advocates of what we have 
called the ionization theory. He has worked chiefly on imido 
esters and related compounds (166). The decomposition o
f
 
methylhido benzoate by water according to the scheme 
: 
proceeds very slowly without catalysts, but is greatly accelerated 
in presence of acid. Stieglitz assumes the catalytic effect to be 
due to the formation o
f
 a positive ion: 
which then reacts spontaneously with the solvent: 
NH,+ 
C6H6.C< 
+ 
H20 
-+ C6H5.C, 
yo +“a 
(3) 
OCH3 
OCHB 
The catalytic effect o
f
 the hydrion is consequently interpreted 
in accordance with the ionization theory, and a closely related ex- 
planation has also been applied by Stieglitz to the ordinary ester 
hydrolysis. 
Although the kinetic basis of these views is subject to the same 
objections as brought out previously, Stieglitz contends that these 
studies constitute a crucial proof o
f
 the validity of the theory and 
other authors particularly Acree (2, 5, 7) have in effect supported 
this view. Stieglitz admits in a later paper (167), however, that 
the form of the reaction curve fails to give any information con- 
cerning the real mechanism o
f
 the reaction, and now resorts to 
other propositions for confirming his theory. 
Particularly he bases his ideas upon the rule that the catalytic 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
261 
effect o
f
 the hydrion is closely connected with the conversion o
f
 
the cation of the weaker base into the cation of the stronger base 
to give the highest possible diminution in free energy: Reaction 
(3) ought to proceed easily since NH, is a stronger base than 
. It is easy to see, however, that Stieglitz's appli- 
\OCHs 
cation of the principle o
f
 change in free energy is not correct and 
that his rule cannot be of general validity. 
Similar considerations on the hydrolysis o
f
 esters have been 
brought forward by Lowry (134) who particularly endeavors to 
elucidate the chemical structure of the intermediate products 
formed by the reacting molecules. Since these intermediate com- 
pounds are supposed to react spontaneously, Lowry's views as 
to the mechanism o
f
 catalysis are practically congruent to those 
of the ionization theory. 
The following formula is ascribed to 
the active complex in the hydrolysis of ethyl acetate: 
/" 
C6HS.C 
0- + 
I 
CH3-C-O-CH3 
I
I
 
OH H 
which is an ampho-ion formed simply by addition of water to the 
ester molecule. Lowry's concept thus seems unable to convey 
any immediate understanding o
f
 the catalytic phenomenon. 
It has now been shown for a number of reactions that a study of 
the kinetic course of reaction cannot provide any support in favor 
of the ionization theory. This has been pointed out on the basis 
of the classical expressions for the velocity of reaction and the 
mass action law, and the result is not therefore a priori applic- 
able to such reactions, for which the classical formulas break 
down. It can be shown, however, that the new and more exact 
theories on idlocity and equilibrium in dilute solutions lead to 
the same result. 
Consider the following chemical state o
f
 equilibrium : 
AI + 
A
z
 * 
Bi + 
B
z
.
 
262 
J. N. BRONSTED 
The thermodynamic mass action law yields for the process: 
K, 
(
4
)
 
aB, aBz 
-= 
&A, %A, 
where a 
denotes the activity and K is the thermodynamic mass 
action constant, independent of the concentration. In the case 
of the A-system undergoing a change into a new system C, 
the velocity according to the new velocity 
the formula: 
theory is given by 
1 
h A  = k
A
 &A, %A, * - 
fx 
as will be explaitid in chapter 4
.
 
I
f
 not A but the B system reacts, the analogous expression is: 
1 
- 
h B  = k
B
 aB, aiB, 
f Y  
where kA and kB 
are constants for dilute solutions and for the 
same solvent, while X and Y are the critical complexes, formed 
from the molecules of the A-system a d  
the B-system, respec- 
tively. Combination of the two equations yields: 
_ -  
h
A
 
kA 1 f Y  
_-._.- 
h B  
k~ K fx 
The electrical charge on the critical complexes X and Y must be 
equal to the total charge of the A and B systems respectively, since 
these complexes are formed by collision within the A- and B- 
systems. The total charge however, is the same, in both systems, 
and X and Y must consequently also carry the same charge. 
This means that the corresponding activity coefficients fx and f y  
vary with the concentration in the same way as long as the solu- 
tion is moderately dilute. hA in the above equation is conse- 
quently proportional to hg, i.e. it is not possible from the kinetic 
course of reaction to distinguish between the decomposition of the 
A- and B-systems even by using the exact equations. At higher 
concentrations (change in medium, addition of salt etc.) the varia- 
. .. 
/ 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
263 
tions in fx and f y  will probably no longer be proportional, but this 
uncertainty as to the ratio between the two activity coefficients 
cannot of course offer any means for conclusions on the mecha- 
nism of reaction. 
The above results are conclusive only if the changes A+C 
and B+C do not cause any disturbance in the equilibria, since 
equation 4 
is valid only for the state of equilibrium. In other 
words the speed of these changes ought to be low as compared to 
that of the maintenance of the equilibrium A$B. 
It is of course 
always possible to decide whether the A- or B-system reacts, if 
only the reaction proceeds sufficiently slowly. 
These considerations can be formulated into a general rule since 
they are quite independent of the particular form of the equilib- 
rium: In any reacting system in which an equilibrium A$B 
is instantaneously established it is impossible to decide from the 
course of the reaction whether the system A or the reciprocal 
system B reacts. 
The two possibilities : 
2 
slow 
B 
:A-C 
; A  
; 
ir 
and 
2 
it 
slow 
2 B  
ZB-+C 
‘
I
 
U 
are equivalent in this respect. This proves that one must relin- 
quish as a general proposition the idea that a verification of the 
ionization theory can be obtained from the kinetics o
f
 the reaction. 
On the other hand it is a question of considerable theoretical 
interest to decide whether this equivalence between the two 
schemes o
f
 reaction really means that f x  and fy are quite identical 
when the equilibrium is established instantaneously but this 
question is certainly not easy to answer. 
It might be possible to distinguish between the two reciprocal 
systems, however, when other considerations besides the purely 
kinetic picture so far considered are taken into account. It has 
been mentioned above that Stieglite found corroboration for the 
ionization theory in a principle involving the connection between 
the strength of the base and the velocity. No general validity 
CHEMICAL REYIEWE, YOL. 
V, NO. 
3 
264 
J. N. BRONSTED 
could be assigned to this principle, but it might nevertheless be 
possible in certain cases to obtain some clues from similar 
considerations. 
The following example from the field of the group of metal 
amines may be illustrative in this respect. The nitrato aquo 
tetramine ion is decomposed by water, splitting off the nitrato 
group and taking up a water molecule as follows: 
NO3 
++ 
H20 l+++ 
("3d 
(r4)! 
CO H20 
+ 
H2O- 
CO 
H20 
+ 
NO, 
This "aquation" process is very sensitive to hydrions, the velocity 
in dilute acid being about inversely proportional to cH+. It might 
therefore seem possible to regard the reaction as an hydroxyl ion 
catalysis. On the other hand the nitrato ion is of slightly acid 
character, the hydrogen atoms of the constitutional water groups 
being ionizable, so the effect of diminished hydrion concentration 
may be to increase the acid dissociation forming the nitrato hy- 
droxo ion which in its turn reacts spontaneously with the solvent. 
These possibilities may be written as follows: 
(4 
T
1
 
or (b) 
T
1
 
 NO^ lf 
H20 l + +  
Co OH 
+H20 ---f P o  
OH 1 +NO, 
i 
(NH3)j 
(
"
3
1
4
 
where the process taken vertically represents the acid-base equilib- 
rium which is instantaneously established. According to what 
ACID AXD BASIC CATALYSIS 
265 
was pointed out before it is impossible to decide from the kinetic 
course of reaction whether reaction (a) or (b) controls the catalysis. 
The fact, however, that the nitrato pentammincobalt ion: 
which is quite analogous to the nitrato aquo tetramine ion-but 
without acid character-shows 
no sensitiveness of this kind to hy- 
drions, may be taken as strong indication that the acidity is 
the determining factor and, therefore the kinetic scheme is given 
by (b) and not by (a). 
Similar deductions will surely give valuable information in 
many other cases as well. 
More decisive criteria for the elucidation of these questions 
may be obtained however on the basis of new conceptions of acid 
and basic catalysis to be developed in the last chapter. 
IV. PRIMARY SALT EFFECT. 
ACTIVITY AND 'CONCENTRATION 
The fact that the addition of neutral salt with or without an 
ion in common with the catalyzing acid often causes considerable 
variations in the reaction constant, was one of the earliest objec- 
tions against Arrhenius' hydrion theory of acid catalysis. 
The 
deviations from proportionality to the concentration of a strong 
catalyzing acid as exhibited for instance in the inversion of cane 
sugar have also been considered of the same nature as the salt 
effect. These points have been dealt with to a certain extent in 
the chapter on the dual theory. In the present chapter we will 
discuss the salt effects more generally from the standpoint of the 
modern theories of electrolyte activity and of velocity of ionic 
reactions. It may at once be stated that the influence of salt 
upon the reaction velocity is far from being a kinetic abnormality 
even in solutions of low concentration. It is entirely reasonable 
to expect a kinetic effect since as already mentioned the addition 
of salt changes considerably the properties of water as a solvent, 
the activity coefficient o
f
 dissolved non-electrolytes being in- 
creased 30 to 40 per cent (157) 
in some cases by simply adding KaC1 
up to 1N. There is no reason to consider this salt effect as an 
266 
J. N. BROSSTED 
enigmatic phenomenon in conflict with the general kinetic views 
as seems to be the idea in Nernst's treatment (146) of this subject. 
Nevertheless it is a question of great interest how this salt effect 
is to be properly interpreted. In this respect it is very conspicu- 
ous that the kinetic salt effects in dilute solution fall into two 
sharply distinguishable groups. 
For some reactions the effect 
upon the velocity constant is proportional to the concentration 
of the salt, in which case the effect is said to be linear. 
In other 
cases the effect is relatively greater the more dilute the salt solu- 
tion: the variation in velocity seems rather to be proportional to 
the square root or to the cube root of the salt concentration, and 
the effect is then appropriately terrned exponential in contra- 
distinction to the linear effect (33). 
A closer examination reveals that the exponential salt effect 
is always involved in reactions between two charged molecules, 
while the linear salt effect is peculiar to reactions between neutral 
molecules or between a neutral molecule and an ion. This ob- 
servation has played an important part in the development of the 
general kinetic theory, in which not only the concentrations of the 
reacting substances but also their activity coefficients are supposed 
to govern the course of reaction. 
It will be desirable to give a brief exposition of the general veloc- 
ity theory for bimolecular reactions, since-as 
mentioned in the 
introduction-catalytic 
reactions can always be considered as 
bimolecular reactions between the molecules of the catalyst and 
the substrate. The velocity of a bimolecular process: 
A + B + C + D ,  
proceeding in dilute solution in an unchanging medium according 
to the classical theory is determined by the expression: ' 
h = k 
9 CA. 
CB, 
the concentration of the reciprocal system thus having no effect 
upon the velocity with which A and B react. From the standpoint 
of velocity being related to free energy this lack of dependence upon 
the chemical potential of the reciprocal system may appear strik- 
ing. Realizing, however, that the reaction, stoichiometrically 
ACID ASD BASIC CATALYSIS 
267 
represented by: A + 
B +
.
 C + 
D is by no means expressed kinet- 
ically by this scheme, but actually consists in the formation of a 
“critical” collision complex (A, B) from collisions between A and B 
and a subsequent instantaneous decomposition of this complex 
to yield C + D, it appears quite natural that the chemical poten- 
tial of the final system is without influence on the course of the 
reaction. 
It is therefore essential to focus one’s attention upon the proc- 
ess: A + B + 
(X), 
i.e. the process leading to the formation of 
the critical complex X. For this reaction it seems reasonable to 
attach great significance to the chemical potentials of all molecules 
taking part in the process. The chemical potential is intimately 
related to the activity coefficient, and the factor by which the 
concentration product in the classical velocity equation must be 
multiplied in order to take into account the influence of the activity 
coefiicients upon the velocity, can be expressed as follows: 
which ratio has been called the kinetic a
c
t
i
v
i
t
y
 factor. 
d detailed treatment of this formula may be found in the 
original papers referred to previously (28, 31). It will suffice 
to mention here that the following hypothesis gives the foundation 
of the theory: “The probability of a molecular system passing 
from its normal state, into a state characterized by great im- 
probability, is proportional to the ratio between the activity coef- 
ficients in the normal and the improbable state.” From this rule 
the above kinetic activity factor is easily calculated, since the ve- 
locity of the processX + 
B +
.
 (X) is proportional to the probabil- 
ity of d 
and B getting into the critical state (X). This process 
being measurably slow the critical state must be characterized 
by a high degree of improbability. 
The complete expression for the velocity of the bimolecular 
reaction according to this theory is consequently: 
268 
J. N. BROXSTED 
For other methods leading to related expressions see Bjerrum 
(18) and Christiansen (39). 
Expression (2) has been verified most conspicuously in ionic 
reactions. From what is known of the effect of ionic charge 
upon the activity coefficient it may be concluded that a positive 
salt effect, i.e., a rise in the velocity on addition of salts, is to be 
expected from equation (2) if the ionic reactants carry charges 
of the same sign, while a negative salt effect or decrease in 
velocity is predicted in the case of ions of opposite sign. This is 
exactly what is borne out by experience. The magnitude of the 
concentration effect i’n dilute solutions may be calculated from 
the expression of Debye-Huckel for the dependence of the activity 
coefficient upon the concentration (47). This theory yields the 
formula (36) : 
(3) 
where z is the valence of the ion and p is the ionic strength, 
defined for a simple salt solution by: 
loglo f = -0.5 z2 & 
c denotes the equivalent concentration and z1 and z2 are the 
valences of the two ions of the salt. By substituting these 
expressions in (2) we get : 
(4) 
The initial slope of the velocity-concentration curve is con- 
sequently infinite. I
f
 
the equivalent salt concentration is 
changed from zero to 0.1 the change in velocity for two univalent 
ions will be about 100 per cent, and for two trivalent ions 
about lo4 times the original value. These effects show what 
extraordinary significance must be assigned to the kinetic 
activity factor and demonstrates clearly the failure of the 
classical expressions-where 
the factor F is omitted-to 
give an 
even approximately correct formula for the velocity of ionic 
reactions. From equation (4) 
it can be seen that the above 
h = k ~ A ~ g 1 0  
z
z
f
i
 
A B 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
269 
mentioned law relating the type of the reaction and the sign of 
the salt effect must be valid, and that the numerical value of the 
salt effect is independent of the sign of the ionic charges. The 
formula fails, however, to give exact quantitative results except 
for extremely dilute solutions. 
In ordinary catalysis, however, the linear salt effect is of greater 
importance than the exponential. Before taking up the applica- 
tion of the formula in the linear salt effect, the relation between 
the new theory and the thermodynamic mass action law as well 
as the part played by the activity concept in this theory should be 
briefly considered. First of all the formula given above fulfills 
the obligation of yielding the thermodynamic mass action law 
when applied to a chemical equilibrium, e.g. 
A + 
B$C + 
D. 
For the velocity from left to right we have the expression 
and for the reverse process: 
At equilibrium where the velocities must be equal, we get: 
According to the theory the critical complexes X and Y are, 
however identical; the 
right hand side of the equation is therefore a 
constant and the equation conforms with the thermodynamic law 
of mass action. 
Another theory-the 
so-called activity rate theory-which 
also obeys this obligatory condition has been developed by H. 
Harned (93, 95, 96), IT;. C. 11,IcC. Lewis (103, 143) and other 
authors (158, 64). Here the velocity is assumed proportional 
270 
J. I
T
.
 BRONSTED 
to the activity of the reactants, and hence for the bimolecular 
process A + B 
C + D we get: 
h = k 
&A &B = k 
CA 
CB f A  fg, 
( 5 )  
an expression which differs from (4) 
through the absence of the 
factor -. 
f X  
1 
The two theories lead to practically identical formulas, in the 
particular case of the critical complex being uncharged, i.e., if 
the two reacting ions carry charges o
f
 the same magnitude but 
of opposite sign. Such reactions can therefore naturally be mis- 
taken as supporting the activity rate theory. In the case of the 
rearrangement of acetyl chloro amino benzene into p-chloro 
acetanilide, investigated by Harned and Seltz (96), the reaction 
may be considered to take place between the organic molecule, 
the H+ 
ion, and the C1- ion. As shown by Bray and Livingston 
(22, 129) the same applies to the catalytic decomposition of 
hydrogen peroxide in an acid bromine-bromide solution, this 
reaction proceeding between the HzOz molecule and the two 
ions Br- and Hf. Both reactions follow equation (5) closely, 
since in these cases f x  is equal to unity. 
For all other types of reactions the formulas of the two theories 
are quite different. The strong positive salt effect, displayed by 
reactions between ions of the same sign in dilute solutions, cannot 
be explained by the activity rate theory-nor 
can the linear effect 
in hydrion catalysis as will be shown later. In obvious conflict 
with facts, a negative salt effect is according to this theory, the 
only possible form of salt effect in dilute solutions. The reason 
why the activity rate theory nevertheless has found some sup- 
porting evidence is-aside 
from those cases where fx = 1-that 
the data refer to solutions of such high concentrations as to ob- 
scure to a large extent the pure activity effects. The application 
of this theory to ordinary acid and basic catalysis will be dealt 
with below. 
It is of essential importance for the salt effect in normal hydrion 
and hydroxyl ion catalysis-as 
exemplified by the inversion of 
cane sugar and ester hydrolysis-that 
the molecules of the sub- 
ACID AKD BASIC CATALYSIS 
27 1 
strate are electrically neutral. I
f
 this be the case the bimolecular 
reaction between the catalyst and the substrate is given by the 
scheme : 
A + 
H+ 
--+ Product of reaction. 
Application of formula (2) will yield for the catalytic velocity: 
f 4  
fH+ 
h = k C A C H + - ,  
f X  
fA, the activity coefficient of a neutral molecule, being at mod- 
erately high dilutions equal to unity, while at the same time 
fHt and f x  approach the same ideal value. The salt effect is 
consequently negligible at low concentrations, retaining for 
the classical expression : 
h = k 
CA CHt 
its full validity. The value of the salt effect at somewhat higher 
concentrations can be determined by using the expressions for 
the dependence of the activity coefficient upon the salt concen- 
tration. The activitity coefficient of a neutral molecule seems- 
as far as our available data go-to 
be given by the equation: 
-Info = Po c, 
while univalent ions at moderately low salt concentrations obey 
the following formula (29, 36) 
-Infl = a fi 
+ 
p1 c, 
where a
:
 is a universal constant. 
By substituting these expressions we get : 
f A  fHf 
- 
In - 
= (PA + 
PH+ - 
Px) 
C, 
f X  
and 
272 
J. N. BRONSTED 
or if the solutions are so dilute with respect to salt that the 
kinetic activity factor does not deviate too much from unity: 
(7) 
h = 
k C A C H +  [I - 
(PA +PH+ -fix> e]. 
This equation states that the salt effect for the type of catalytic 
reactions under consideration varies linearly with the salt con- 
centration, Le., the total electrolyte concentration inclusive of 
the concentration of the catalyzing strong acid. 
The coefficients PA and pH+, 
and probably px as well, are of the 
same order of magnitude, so that the three species of molecules, 
involved in the reaction, can be expected to contribute equally 
to the salt effect. As to the absolute magnitude of pA the evi- 
dence available from salting-out experiments has shown that the 
nature o
f
 both the A-molecule and the salt are of influence, so that 
neither the magnitude nor even the sign of the coefficient is cer- 
tain. The same applies probably to PH+ and px as well. An 
examination of the data available on the p-coefficient seems, 
however, to indicate that the following expression 
is valid for most reactions, so that the maximum positive or nega- 
tive salt effect 
would not exceed 10 
per cent in a 0.1 N salt solution, 
while ordinarily it is considerably less. The data on kinetic salt 
effect confirm this supposition quite well. The fact that salt 
addition generally accelerates hydrion catalysis may also be 
explained from this formula, since pH+ 
has a lower value than the 
corresponding coefficient for most other ions and since PA, the 
coefficient for a non-electrolyte, is often negative. 
The laws for hydroxyl ion catalysis are quite similar to those 
given above for acid catalysis; but the sign of the salt effect seems 
frequently to be negative in basic catalysis, e.g., in ester hydrolysis 
(9) and in the decomposition of triacetonaniine (68, 69, 35). 
For the individual salt effects the ionic charge is important, the 
catalytic effect being independent of the positive ion, if the 
catalyst itself is positively charged while dependent upon the 
negative, and vice versa (33, 40). 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
273 
This theory of the primary linear salt effect may be regarded 
as accounting for most of the 
phenomenadescribedin 
this chapter, 
without implying, however, that allothereffects areof no influence. 
It ought especially to be emphasized that the change in medium, 
brought about by addition of even moderately small quantities of 
salt, can affect the rate of chemical reaction noticeably. The 
effects of changes in the medium are probably proportional to the 
salt concentration, and they cannot therefore be distinguished 
from the effects determined by formula (7). 
A linear salt effect has been found in many reactions, e.g., in 
the inversion of cane sugar (150), ester hydrolysis (53, 151, 169), 
lactone formation (97, 98) etc., many of these results having been 
taken as supporting the dual theory as mentioned in chapter 2. 
More recently, the diazo acetic ester catalysis (34) and the 
decomposition of triacetonamine (35) have been investigated, 
showing the existence of a linear salt effect-positive 
in the first 
case and negative in the latter. 
The primary salt effect in the ordinary processes catalyzed 
by hydrions and hydroxyl ions is thus shown to belinear-i.e., 
proportional to the concentration-both 
from theoretical con- 
siderations and from experimental evidence. The conditions will 
of course be altered, when the substrate is no longer a neutral 
molecule. The effect is then determined by formula (2) as an 
exponential salt effect to account for the response of the ionic 
activity coefficients to changes in concentration. 
Such reactions 
are of great interest, but experimental data are not yet available 
for proving that this kind of catalysis actually exists. 
The activity rate theory described previously has been based 
to some extent upon catalytic investigations. As the chief result 
in this field it has been pointed out that the activity of the 
catalyst and not its concentration is the essential factor in the 
catalysis. 
This view may possibly be traced back to Lapworth (122, 102) 
who attaches great catalytic significance 
to changes in the thermo- 
dynamic potential of the hydrion, caused for example by addition 
of water to an alcoholic solution. In his investigation on the 
catalytic decomposition of hydrogen-peroxide in presence of 
274 
J. N. BROKSTED 
iodide ions Harned (93) claims proportionality between the rate 
of reaction and the chloride ion activity in solutions of sodium 
chloride and potassium chloride, a linear salt effect having been 
previously found for this reaction through work by Bredig and 
Walton (26). The activity of the catalyst has been introduced 
more directly in investigations by Jones and Lewis (103) on the 
inversion of cane sugar, by Harned and Seltz (96) on the trans- 
formation of acetyl chloro amino benzene into p-chloro acet- 
anilide and by Harned and Pfanstiel (95) on the hydrolysis of 
ethyl acetate, these authors having emphasized the importance 
of the activity of the catalyst by more or less convincing 
arguments. 
A thorough examination by Akerlof (1) of the acid catalysis of 
ethyl acetate in the presence of various salts at high concentra- 
tions has led to the following formula for the salt effect 
at constant 
hydrion concentration : 
3
-
 
h = C Z/aH+. 
where C is a constant. Contrary to the activity rate theory 
the velocity is here supposed to be proportional to the cube root 
of the activity and Akerlof’s equation, applied to dilute salt 
solutions, cannot therefore give the catalytic activity rate theory 
any support. 
Grube and Schmid (87) hare recently subjected the neutral 
salt effect in the acid hydrolysis of cyanamide according to the 
scheme : 
”
2
 
CN.NH2 + 
H20 
--j CO<” 
2 
to a close study with a special view to strongly concentrated salt 
solutions. They find the simple connection : 
h = hoekc, 
(8) 
where h and ho are the velocities with and without salt addition 
respectively, G is the salt concentration and k a constant de- 
pendent upon the nature of the salt. This equation, which shows 
that the same change in salt concentration produces the same 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
275 
percentage change in h analogous to the equation for salting out 
of a non-electrolyte (157), could also be made to fit other reac- 
tions, e.g. some of the systems examined by Harned and Akerlof 
quoted previously. 
It is not unlikely that an equation like (8) 
might have approxi- 
mate validity up to quite high concentrations, in which respect the 
concentration scale in which c is expressed is not without con- 
sequence. It is to be noted especially that equation (8), for 
sufficiently small values of c, can be written in the following 
manner : 
h = ho (1 + 
kc), 
Le., exactly analogous to the equation for the linear salt effect, 
The considerations, upon which the linear expression is based, 
lead in reality to formula (8), 
but the differences between the two 
equations can be neglected in dilute solutions. On the other 
hand the relation assumed by Grube and Schmid to exist be- 
tween concentration and hydrion activity, and from which they 
conclude the importance of the latter in catalysis, is open to 
criticish. 
a = aOek’O 
(9) 
where a and a. are the hydrion activities with and without any 
salt addition respectively, c is the salt concentration and k’ a 
constant dependent upon the nature of the salt. Combination 
of (S) and (9) yields: 
This relation is expressed as follows: 
or 
This formula agrees with that of Akerlof, if k’/k be equal to 3, 
which, however, according to Grube and Schmid is not the case. 
Expression (9) gives at low salt concentrations: 
a = a. (1 + 
k’c) 
276 
J. N. BROXSTED 
or if the concentration o
f
 acid is sufficiently low: 
5tH = CH (1 + k’c) 
The hydrion activity ought therefore to vary linearly with the 
salt concentration-in 
obvious conflict with the well known con- 
nection between concentration and activity coefficient in dilute 
solutions. Equations (9) and (10) cannot therefore be o
f
 general 
validity. 
Most of the experiments that have been done to construct an 
experimental basis for the activity rate theory o
f
 catalysis have, 
in order to get marked and conspicuous effects, been done at high 
salt concentrations. This procedure does not serve the purpose 
for several reasons: Firstly because the pure catalytic effect in 
these solutions is influenced and obscured by numerous factors, 
veiling the effect that is being sought. Secondly one is prevented 
from taking advantage of the pronounced and uniform variations 
with concentration shown by the activity coefficient in dilute 
solutions. The information obtained from a study of dilute 
solutions indicates beyond doubt that the important factor is the 
concentration of the catalyst and not its activity. The results 
arrived at in concentrated solutions cannot therefore be used for 
building up a general theory in conflict with the experimental 
foundation itself, but they might be combined to form empirical 
laws of more or less extended applicability, the experimental 
data being still far too scant for a satisfactory interpretation of 
such empirical rules. 
Still one step further has been taken in support of the activity 
rate theory by assuming that the absolute activity o
f
 the hydrion 
is the governing factor in acid catalysis also when shifting from 
one solvent to another. This assumption in some way har- 
monizes with the general velocity theory developed by Dimroth 
(48). The fact that hydrochloric acid catalyzes lactone forma- 
tion much more strongly in moist ether than in aqueous solutions 
of the same Concentration, is explained by Taylor (172) as due to 
differences in the activity of HC1 in the two solvents. On this 
point it will be sufficient to refer the reader to previous con- 
siderations (31) regarding the effect of a change in the medium. 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
277 
In a conscious opposition to the concentration theory Kuhn 
and Jacob (116) have made the assumption that hydrion catalysis, 
particularly for the mutarotation of glucose, but also in general, 
is not proportional to the hydrion concentration but to the 
activity of the reacting molecules. Since their results are only 
of moderate accuracy and their paper does not contain any dis- 
cussion at all of the 
mass o
f
 data contradictory to their assumption 
we need only quite briefly consider their statements. 
Their own measurements can indeed, although with some difK- 
culty, be interpreted in favor of the concentration theory. The 
difficulties lie in the authors’ failure to state the acid concen- 
tration, giving only the PHt values electrometrically measured. 
For the most suitable experiments, viz., the measurements at 
PHt = 2
.
0
9
 and 1.05 the ratio between the catalytic velocity 
(the total velocity minus the spontaneous) and the hydrion 
activity at the two concentrations is found to be 3.5 and 3
.
0
 
respectively. I
f
 the concentration is substituted for activity, 
the corresponding values will be 3.9 and 4.0 showing a much 
better agreement. The data of Kuhn and Jacob correspond, 
therefore, better to the concentration theory than to the activity 
theory. 
Their argu- 
ments for assuming proportionality with the activity are based 
upon their salt effect experiments. 1.0 T
X
 lithium chloride accel- 
erates the reaction about 30 per cent in 0.1 N HC1, while the same 
concentration of LiCl is of no effect in 0.001N acid. This differ- 
ence in the effects at different HC1 concentrations is explained 
by the authors on the basis of changes in f H t  caused by the salts. 
How this assumption can be made to account for the activity 
proportionality is not obvious. 
The salt effect experiments are explained most simply by 
assuming the spontaneous reaction to be retarded about 10 per 
cent and the catalytic reaction to be accelerated about 40 per cent 
by 1 
K LiC1. This is by no means unreasonable, since corre- 
sponding salt effects are known from analogous reactions. Both 
these effects are expected to be linear. 
Although based upon an unsound theoretical foundation which 
The authors did not carry out this calculation. 
278 
J. N. BRONSTED 
weakens from the outset the whole conduct of their work the 
paper of Kuhn and Jacob contains in some respects an interesting 
experimental contribution to the study of the glucose trans- 
formation as will be described further in the last chapter. 
V. SECOSDARY SALT EFFECT 
While the primary salt effect as pointed out in the previous 
chapter is a direct kinetic consequence of changes in the activity 
coefficient of the molecules involved, the effect called the second- 
ary salt effect (27, 38, 37, 35) is o
f
 an indirect nature, caused by 
a displacement in the equilibrium on addition of salt, this dis- 
placement either increasing or decreasing the concentrations of 
ions, participating in the reaction. 
In a well known investigation on inversion velocity, Arrhenius 
(13) showed in 1899 that the catalytic inversion of cane sugar is 
much more sensitive to addition of neutral salts like KC1 when 
the catalyst is a weak acid than when it is a strong acid. He 
interpreted this phenomenon as the effect of an increase in the 
dissociation of the weak acid and consequently also in the number 
of catalyzing hydrions, connecting this change in dissociation 
with the general deviations from the ideal osmotic laws already 
at that time known to exist in the case of strong electrolytes. 
This explanation given by Arrhenius must be considered as being 
correct also from the standpoint of more modern ideas. In order 
to get a thorough understanding of the phenomena involved, 
Le., to get a quantitative theory for the secondary salt effect, it 
is necessary, however, to consider the case in the full light of the 
modern electrolytic theory. 
Numerous investigators during the last decades have de- 
veloped a new concept of what has been called the anomalies of 
strong electrolytes. Van Laar (118, 119) seems to have been the 
first to advance the view that salts like potassium chloride and 
sodium chloride are ionized in aqueous solution, to a much higher 
extent than concluded from conductivity data. On this basis 
the electrolytic conductivity cannot be taken as a measure of the 
degree of dissociation-as 
was done by Arrhenius-but 
the 
variation in the molar conductivity with concentration has to be 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
279 
ascribed to the electric forces acting between the ions. The same 
idea has been developed independently of van Laar by Bjerrum 
(17), 
Milner (140) 
and Ghosh (84,85,86). While Milner and Ghosh 
have aimed at a theoretical evaluation o
f
 the effects caused by 
the electrostatic forces between the ions the credit for having 
been the first to realize the great chemical importance inherent 
in the theory of the complete dissociation of strong electrolytes 
rests with Bjerrum. He has also shown that the chemical 
phenomena in salt solutions are easily amenable to a simple 
treatment from the new viewpoints by applying the convenient 
concept activity-originally 
introduced by G. h
’
.
 
Lewis (126)- 
and the corresponding activity coefficient. 
The following formula has been given by Bjerrum for the 
activity coefficient of an ion: 
-1nf = a +G 
(1) 
where c is the salt concentration and a a constant dependent 
upon the ion charge and the type of salt. This expression, 
representing the logarithm of the activity coefficient as propor- 
tional to the cube root of the concentration, seems to hold quite 
well for concentrations from 0.01N to O.lX, while a corresponding 
square root formula appears to be more exact at lower concen- 
trations. As mentioned before the following formula (29, 36), 
is applicable also at somewhat higher concentrations : 
(2) 
It is beyond the scope of the present treatise to go into the details 
of this theory, and reference will therefore only be made to some 
reviews (14, 49, 100, 147) containing the chief characteristics of 
the theory. Concepts like “activity” and “activity coefficient” 
are supposed to be familiar to the reader, 
An important contribution to the quantitative understanding 
of the conditions in solutions of strong electrolytes has been given 
recently by Debye and Hiickel (47), who hare developed theo- 
retically an expression for the activity coefficient in dilute solu- 
tions, given in simplified form by the following formula: 
-In f = a
6
 
+ 
pc 
lo6 
z2 6 
- 
log,, f = ___ 
* 
1.81 
(DT)3’2 
(3) 
280 
J. N. BRONSTED 
where p denotes the ionic strength (see chapter 4), z the valence of 
the ion, D the dielectric constant of the medium and T the tem- 
perature, while at higher concentrations an additional term has 
to be included containing the first power of the concentration. 
This formula agrees well with (2), developed chiefly on an 
empirical basis. 
The great value of these investigations in the interpretation of 
kinetic phenomena is due to the fact that both the kinetic activity 
factor and the shift of equilibrium which determines the secondary 
salt effect, depend upon the activity coefficients 
of the ions. This 
shifting of the equilibrium can be calculated in the following way: 
I
f
 the catalyst be for example, acetic acid, dissociating accord- 
ing to the scheme: 
the thermodynamic mass action law yields: 
EH-+E-+H+, 
&E- aH+ - 
K, 
~ E H  
Substituting a = cf : 
-- 
where a is the activity. 
A change in the degree of dissociation must consequently follow 
when the factor fE-fHC 
is changed in the presence of electrolytes. 
For acetic acid in 0.01N solution fE- and fH+ are reduced from 
about 0.98 to 0.7-0.75 by addition of salt up to O.lN, while 
fEH may be considered as approximately unchanged and equal to 
unity. The dissociation of the acetic acid has consequently to 
increase about 40 per cent, and a similar increase has to be 
expected in the catalytic effect, since the hydrion concentration 
is the deciding factor in the catalysis. 
Schreiner (161) has worked out the dissociation of acetic acid 
from this point of view, finding agreement with the theory, and 
similar verifications have been obtained in numerous other 
measurements (27, 28, 38). 
~ E H  
' 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
281 
The secondary effect exerted by salts upon catalysis by weak 
acids depends according to this example upon changes in the 
activity factor, these changes being chiefly a function of the 
valence type of the weak electrolyte. The influence of salt 
in lowering the activity coefficient is greater the higher the charge 
of the ion-as 
shown by numerous experimental data (36), and 
as follows from the Debye-Huckel theory. For aqueous solutions 
at 20°C. the Debye-Huckel formula can be written: 
(4) 
where z is the valence of the ion. I
f
 this formula be used for 
calculating the activity factor in the dissociation equilibrium: 
-1og1of 
= 0.5 z2 6 
A
~
B
 
+ 
H+, 
we get 
fB fH+ 
-log - 
= (
2
;
 - 
ZI 
+ 
1
)
 0.5 6 
f 
A 
or 
and the corresponding mass action expression becomes : 
The dissociation constant is consequently independent of the 
salt concentration when z = 0, Le., when the B-molecule is 
uncharged. Hence the equilibrium 
NH4f = n
T
H
3
 + 
Hf, 
where B = KHa, 
will not be shifted by addition of salt at moder- 
ately low concentrations. The acidity created by the above 
dissociation scheme or by a dissociation of the same electrical 
type will therefore be governed by particularly simple laws. 
I
f
 zBis 
negative, salt addition will evidently increase the dis- 
282 
J
.
 N. 
BROXSTED 
sociation of the acid as shown previously in the case of acetic 
acid. 
It 
will be still more pronounced, if the charge of the acid itself is 
negative, as for example for the acid oxalate and tartrate ions. 
I
f
 zB is positive, the dissociation of the acid will decrease on 
addition of salt, the salt effect being in this case negative; as an 
example one may take the “hydrolytic” decomposition of the 
chromic ion (38), which can be considered most simply as a dis- 
sociation according to the scheme : 
This effect will be designated a positive salt effect. 
The secondary salt effect in hydroxyl ion catalysis can be 
calculated in a similar way by considering the equilibrium: 
B + A + O H -  
The corresponding equations will be: 
and 
A positive salt effect ought consequently to be obtained, when 
ZA is positive, for example when the base is uncharged like NH, 
or when it carries positive charges. The salt effect is zero when 
zA = 0, for example in the equilibrium: 
E- + 
HzO e 
EH + 
OH-, 
and finally negative salt effect has to be expected, when ZA is 
negative, e.g. 
: 
PO,-- + 
HzO 2 
HPOI- + 
OH-, 
when zA = -2. 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
283 
As long as the solutions are sufficiently dilute with respect to 
salt, for example not exceeding O.OlK', the formulas (5) and 
(6) will permit of a fairly exact quantitative calculation of the 
salt effect. The deviations appearing at higher concentrations 
are probably as a first approximation best given as varying 
linearly with the salt concentration, the proportionality factors 
involved being of the same order of magnitude as the salting-out 
coefficient for non-electrolytes and the coefficient 
p in formula (2). 
It should be noted that the magnitude of the effect here dis- 
cussed is largely a function of the ratio in which the molecules 
are present in the equilibria considered. Three separate cases 
might here be distinguished. 
Consider the equilibrium : 
A - & B + H +  
and suppose the catalysis to be due to the hydrions. I
f
 cB = 
cH+ 
(I), 
that is the solution can be made up from the weak elec- 
trolyte A and the solvent alone the salt effect 
will fall upon B and 
Hf to the same extent. I
f
 cB > > cH+ 
(11), 
Le., in the case of a 
buffer solution, the whole change in concentration will be re- 
stricted to the hydrion, and the catalytic effect will be double 
that in case (I); and finally if cH+ > > cB (111), 
the solution is 
regulated with respect to B-molecules and the secondary salt 
effect equal to zero. 
It is evident from what has been stated that the secondary salt 
effect is dependent upon a number of factors and so may prove 
of a rather complicated nature. It is important therefore 
that the theory has been amply verified. The law of secondary 
salt effect is obeyed not only when a salt like KC1 is added to 
acetic acid in the inversion of cane sugar or for the hydrolysis of 
esters [hrrhenius (13, 27)] but also in cases where salts with a 
common ion are added to weak acids or bases. The older data 
show on closer examination that considerable deviations from the 
simple classical laws exist. For instance when sodium acetate 
is added to acetic acid or when ammonium chloride (10, 35) is 
added to ammonia results are obtained which conform to the 
requirements of the secondary salt effect. 
Furthermore the influence of differences in the type of dis- 
284 
J. N. BRONSTED 
sociation has been verified by recent investigations. A strong 
negative salt effect has been found for the basic catalysis o
f
 
nitroso triacetonamine (35), 
when the reaction proceeds in a 
mixture of secondary and tertiary phosphates. A negative 
effect has also been found for the diazo acetic ester catalysis in 
solutions of chromic salts (38). These phenomena are all in 
agreement with the theory of the secondary salt effect. 
The considerations made in this and the preceding chapter in 
connection with the development of the theory of primary and 
secondary salt effects clearly show the inadequacy of attempting 
to relate the salt effects simply to the pHI 
values of the solu- 
tions. These values are only o
f
 indirect interest in the question 
of the rate o
f
 reaction-as 
pointed out before, while at the same 
time they fail to take into account the general change in medium 
brought about by shifting the equilibria in the solution. It has 
been overlooked in the numerous attempts o
f
 this kind not only 
that the p,+-function 
(or potential in general) is but in- 
directly o
f
 significance in the question of reaction rate, but also, 
that the effect of added salts is, as shown, very pronouncedly 
dependent upon the general nature of the system under inves- 
tigation. 
VI. THE ACID-BASIC FUNCTION 
For a complete understanding of the phenomena in acid and 
basic catalysis, an analysis of the very concept of acids and bases 
is necessary. The historical development of this concept, as 
outlined for example in S. &
I
.
 Jorgensen’s (104) and Ramberg’s 
(152) expositions of the subject, gives an impression of very 
fluctuating views in the course of time. Here we are not going to 
deal with the historical evolution but try to present the ideas to 
which recent studies of the nature of acids and bases have led. 
The definition of an acid deduced from Arrhenius’ dissociation 
theory may be considered as the one generally accepted nowadays. 
According to this any substance splitting off hydrions on solution 
in water is an acid. The definition in this form is hardly con- 
sistent since certain properties are attributed to the substance 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
285 
under circumstances different from those under which the observa- 
tions are made. A substance ought to be pronounced an acid 
under certain conditions only if hydrions are released from it 
under the same conditions. Pure acids like acetic acid and nitric 
acid will perhaps not be considered as acids by this definition, if 
hydrions are undetectable when the substances are in a pure 
state, i.e., in the absence of solvent. 
It is quite possible, however, that a substance which does not 
give off hydrions under certain conditions can nevertheless, 
possess properties which justify the application of the term acid. 
This is easily understood when realizing that the reaction indi- 
cating the acidity of the acid: 
is not identical with the reaction governing the dissociation in a 
solvent, since it is not the free but only the solvated hydrions 
which attain perceptible concentrations in solution. The real 
dissociation always proceeds in cooperation with the solvent, 
and the degree of dissociation is dependent upon the readiness 
with which this cooperation is afforded. In defining an acid, 
however, it is preferable, to disregard this influence o
f
 the solvent 
and instead of the true process of dissociation to use scheme (1) 
as our definition of the acid A, expressing merely the splitting off 
of a hydrion, without saying anything concerning its subsequent 
fate. 
Now considering the definition of a base it is well known that, 
since the formulation of the dissociation theory this has been 
closely associated with the hydroxyl ion. A substance, accord- 
ing to this view, is considered a base when it splits off hydroxyl 
ions in aqueous solutions. This definition, however, is much 
too narrow, even after being modified to include the solvent 
effect as in the definition of an acid given above. Those sub- 
stances, designated as bases, are, quite generally and inde- 
pendently of the solvent, characterized by their ability to take up 
hydrions. Scheme (1) will consequently express both the acid 
character of the molecule A and the basic character of the mole- 
286 
J. N. BRONSTED 
cule B and can therefore be used as the schematic definition for 
both; namely, 
Acid 
A 
= B  
Base + 
+ H+ 
A base is necessarily formed whenever a substance functions 
as an acid giving off hydrions, and conversely an acid has always 
to appear when a base takes up a hydrion. Acids and bases 
related to each other by such a scheme are designated as con- 
jugate acids and bases. 
The advantages of this definition are developed elsewhere (30) 
and will not be treated in detail here. It suffices to mention that 
the scheme gives in all cases a logical and adequate expression of 
the properties which are generally recognized as being charac- 
teristic of acids and bases. The close relation between these two 
groups of substances is explained by their fundamental relation 
to the hydrion, while their unique position as compared with all 
other chemical substances is due to the uniqueness of the hydrion, 
consisting solely of an atomic nucleus. The only possibl; 
parallel to this class of substances is the oxidation-reduction 
system, in which the electron plays the same r6le as does the 
hydrogen nucleus or proton in the acid-base-system. 
Furthermore the thennodynamic significance of the scheme (2) 
ought to be emphasized. Even if the two opposed reactions in 
the equilibrium given by (2) fail in giving the correct kinetic 
picture of the process, the thermodynamic mass action law may 
nevertheless be applied to the equilibrium, irrespective of whether 
or not actual existence is assigned to the hydrion. This point 
will be taken up in the next chapter in the problem of obtaining a 
suitable standard for the concepts of acidity and basicity as well 
as of acid and basic strength. 
There can be inferred from scheme (2) as a result of particular 
importance that conjugate acids and bases cannot carry the same 
electric charge. I
f
 the acid is electrically neutral, the base must 
be negatively charged, e.g., in the acetic acid-acetate ion system. 
EH + 
E- + 
H+, 
* 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
287 
while a neutral base requires a positively charged acid, e.g. 
XH4+ 
"
3
 
+ 
H+. 
In this respect the new definition shows a distinctive departure 
from the old theory in which the electric neutrality of the acid 
and basic molecules was considered an essential feature (137). 
According to the new concept molecules exert their acid or basic 
functions independently of their electric charges, the acid and 
basic properties being ascribable in the same way to ions and 
uncharged molecules. 
The recognition of this point o
f
 view implies an unusual ex- 
tension of the acid-base concept, but at the same time createsa 
simplification and conformity in the treatment of the phenomena 
involved both in aqueous and non-aqueous solutions. Reference 
is made to earlier papers on this subject (30, 32). 
The fact that a molecule may exhibit acidity or basicity in- 
dependent of its charge does not mean, of course, that the charge 
is without influence upon the strength of the acid and the base. 
Nor does the omission of the solvent in scheme (2) imply that the 
solvent is immaterial for the manifestation of the acid and basic 
properties. On the contrary, as shown in chapter 7, the influence 
of the solvent is of the greatest importance. First of all the 
dissociation of an acid, as mentioned, takes place only under the 
influence of the solvent. For acetic acid in water the dissociation 
equilibrium will be given by the scheme: 
in which EH and H30+ 
according to (2) act as acids and HzO 
and 
E- as bases. It is reasonable to assume that the hydrion unites 
with one molecule of water, just as it takes up one molecule of 
ammonia. This is in agreement with the results obtained by , 
numerous authors (83, 62, 90, 63, 160, 134, 32). The normal, 
hydrated hydrion, or the oxonium ion, may therefore be con- 
sidered as an acid, possessing special significance not in any 
essential respect but only because of the practical consideration 
that its conjugate base is the most common solvent, water. 
288 
J. N. BROXSTED 
Addition of the base, ammonia, to the solvent water will in the 
same manner give rise to the equilibrium : 
ISH3 + 
H2O 
“
4
’
 
+ 
OH-, 
where XH3 and OH- function as bases and H20 
and KH4+ 
as 
acids. The different rdle played by the water in these two ex- 
amples makes clear its amphoteric character and may serve as an 
example in considering the double acid-base equilibrium, which will 
be established in a system comprising two pairs of conjugate 
acids and bases : 
Acidl + 
Base2 
F? Acid2 + 
Basel, 
(3) 
In conformity with this scheme, the reaction taking place on 
mixing an acid and a base consists in the formation of a new acid 
and a new base. This result is in marked opposition to the usual 
ideas according to which the resulting reaction is a “neu- 
tralization.” 
Acid + 
base 
salt + 
water 
(4) 
Since, however, the concepts of “neutralieation” and “neu- 
trality,” as has been shown before (30), are illogical and mis- 
leading, it seems desirable to subject scheme (4) 
which is funda- 
mental to these concepts to a closer examination especially as to its 
relation to (3). One would expect that such an analysis would 
lead to a more satisfactory understanding of the “salt” concept 
and its relation to that of acids and bases than has hitherto been 
obtained. 
The extent, to which acids and bases react upon mixing, is as is 
well known entirely dependent upon their strength. For “strong” 
acids and bases in aqueous solution the reaction is practically 
complete; 
for acetic acid and ammoniait is appreciably incomplete; 
for acetic acid and aniline only 50 per cent complete; while finally 
phenol and aniline scarcely react at all. Theoretically the 
reactions can be considered as incomplete in all cases, and the 
nature of the acid and basic properties is consequently analyzed 
most generally by taking acids and bases which do not exhibit 
extreme effects. 
ACID Ah‘D BASIC CATALYSIS 
289 
For that purpose consider the reaction between acetic acid and 
( 1 5 )  
aniline 
CHICOOH + 
CsHsNHz F? CHICOO- + 
CeHjNH3+ 
and the reaction between acetic acid and the propionate ion: 
CH3COOH + 
CzHsC00- e 
CH3COO- + 
CSHSCOOH 
(6) 
The extent of reaction in both these cases is about 50%, so 
so that the concentrations of the two reciprocal systems are about 
the same at equilibrium. Scheme (5) taken from left to right 
denotes the reaction between a neutral acid and a neutral base 
and in the opposite direction a reaction between an ion base and 
an ion acid, while scheme (6) gives in either direction the reaction 
between an ion base and a neutral acid. Both reactions conform 
completely to scheme (3). 
It is immediately apparent by comparison with scheme (4) 
that the water molecule is absent in (5) and (6). This might 
perhaps be considered as immaterial, since in aqueous solution it 
is always possible to introduce a water molecule in the equation 
by assuming hydration to take place. The effect of such a water 
molecule could not be distinguished, however, from the ordinary 
solvation effect, pertaining to all reactions proceeding in a sol- 
vent, and therefore cannot furnish a distinguishing charac- 
teristic in acid and basic reactions. 
Furthermore it is seen in the case of reaction (4) 
that acetate 
ion + anilinium ion, i.e., acid and base with opposite charges, 
serve as a substitute for the “salt” in scheme (
4
)
.
 The definition 
of a salt given by (4) 
corresponds consequently in this respect to 
the ordinary concept of salts as substances being ionized into 
two G r  more oppositely charged ions. The product of re- 
action in (6), however, cannot possibly be covered by the salt 
concept, nor does the product in scheme (5), taken from right 
to left, viz. acetic acid + aniline, justify the application of this 
term. 
Hence “salt formation” in reactions between acids and bases 
becomes restricted to cases, in which the acid-base system 
reacting is uncharged. I
f
 it be recognized, therefore, that the 
290 
J. N. BRONSTED 
electric charge does not affect the characteristic properties of 
acids and bases, the conclusion seems inevitable that also “salt 
formation” is deprived of the rdle hitherto assigned to it in acid- 
basic reactions thus leaving the relation between salts, acids and 
bases involved in scheme (4) 
without general significance. 
The usual scheme (4), 
comprising the old views on acid and 
basic reactions, is therefore certainly not adequate according to 
the new concepts. It ought to be stated, however, that this 
scheme has originated from considerations on “strong” acids and 
bases in aqueous solution. Since the base in this case is the 
hydroxyl ion, the “process of neutralization” will certainly be 
accompanied by the formation of water. This is naturally not in 
conflict with our point of view, according to which HzO might 
take part in the reaction just as well as any other base and acid. 
I
f
 both the acid and the base are strong, the whole reaction will 
correspond to a water formation, thus: 
+ 
OH- d 
2HzO, 
(7) 
and if the acid is weak and the base strong: 
CH3COOH + 
OH- e 
CH3COO- + 
H20 
(8) 
or the acid strong and the base weak: 
H30+ + 
NHs 
F’t KH4+ + 
HzO, 
(9) 
water and no salt will be formed. Previously it has been cus- 
tomary to consider Na+ + OH- and not OH- alone as the 
base; in the same way the term acid has been applied to H30+ 
+ C1- and not to H30+ 
alone. The products in the above 
equations would then be : 
(7) 
(8) 
(9) 
2HzO + 
h’n+ + 
C1- 
HzO + 
Na+ + 
CH3COO- 
HzO + 
h”4+ + 
C1- 
in agreement with the old idea of a salt formation. It seems 
self-evident, however, that an admixture of ions-already present 
in the original solutions-can 
hardly be characteristic of a 
ACID APiD BASIC CATALYSIS 
29 
1 
chemical process, and also that the systems H30+ + C1- and 
Na+ + OH- deserve the designation of salts just as much as do 
Ns+ + C1-, Na+ + CH3 COO- or KH4+ + C1-. 
The acid- 
base reaction would then according to the old point of view hardly 
represent a salt formation, but rather a salt transformation. 
Accordingly, since we are justified in concluding that the usual 
scheme : 
acid + 
base G 
salt + 
water 
does not express the essential and characteristic features in the 
reaction between acids and bases, it becomes evident that the 
conception o
f
 a salt-if 
at all accessible for a proper deiimita- 
tion-has 
to be established by definitions which have no relation 
to the conception of acids and bases. 
E. Franklin (70) has pointed out that the common scheme (4) 
for acid, base and salt can be replaced in many reactions by other 
schemes in which the part played by H20 
is taken by other sub- 
stances such as HF, H2S, 
H3S, 
etc., thus making a distinction 
between the “water system,” the “hydrogen fluoride system” 
etc. for acid, bases and salts. These considerations being 
primarily systematic in character, do not add anything new con- 
cerning the characteristic functions of acids and bases. The 
objections brought against the ordinary ideas on the “water 
system,” may be transferred unchanged in principle to Franklin’s 
systems. 
VII. ON THE STRENGTH O F  ACIDS AND BASES 
To the considerations on the acid-basic function given in the 
preceding chapter it is necessary to attach a definition of acid and 
basic strength as well as of the concepts of acidity and basicity. 
These terms have been confined primarily to aqueous solutions or, 
in any case, to solutions of constant environment, without much 
consideration as to how the concepts can be extended to include 
variations in solvent. Since in aqueous solutions acidity is most 
conveniently defined as the hydrion activity or the hydrion 
potential, it would appear reasonable to define the acidity of any 
homogeneous system as the hydrion potential in that system, 
Such a definition would be similar to the one suggested by Lap- 
292 
J. N. BROSSTED 
worth (123), whose views on this point, however, are far from 
being clear. Basicity is then the reciprocal value o
f
 the activity 
or the negative value of the hydrion potential. 
Measurements of acidity and basicity, defined in this manner, 
could then, in principle, be carried out by determining the 
potential difference between two reversible hydrogen electrodes, 
one dipping into a standard solution of unit hydrion activity and 
the other into the solution in question, both solutions being 
brought to the same electrical potential. The activity concept 
to be used here is the same as the one originally proposed by 
G. N. Lewis, identity of activity of a substance in two solvents 
indicating that also its chemical potential is the same in these 
solvents. This activity may be called the absolute activity in 
order to avoid ambiguity. The activity of an acid is of course an 
entirely different concept from that of acidity since the former 
depends not only upon the H+ 
ion but also upon the correspond- 
ing anion. 
While fixing the conception of acidity and basicity by a theo- 
retical definition is thus of no difficulty the problem o
f
 obtaining 
a general measure of acid and basic strength may appear a little 
more complicated. In conformity with the dissociation theory, 
it has become customary to determine the strength o
f
 an acid 
by its dissociation constant in dilute aqueous solution. This 
method is excellent also for non-aqueous solutions, as long as the 
problem is only to compare the strength of various acids in the 
same medium. Constancy of the medium obviously requires 
that the concentration of the acids under investigation should be 
very low, since a solution of finite concentration really is a medium 
different from the pure solvent. 
The “dissociation constant” is however no longer a simple 
measure of acid and basic strength, when the medium is changed. 
It would therefore hardly be rational to use this constant for 
comparing acid strengths in different media. In searching for a 
more general measure of the strength, it would seem expedient 
to relate the question of strength to the general concept o
f
 acid- 
ity and basicity. 
A T f B + H +  
Keeping in mind our scheme of definition: 
, 
ACID AKD BASIC CATALYSIS 
293 
we will decide to measure the strength of acids and bases by the 
acidity and basicity, respectively, exhibited in the solutions 
under comparable conditions, Le., when the ratio between the con- 
centrations of acid and base is a constant. I
f
 unity is chosen 
for this constant ratio, we get the expression: 
as a measure of the acid strength for variations of both the acid 
and the medium, and similarly for the basic strength 
The constants thus defined, for which the term acidity constant 
and basicity constant should be used, are-as 
a closer study 
shows 
-well 
adapted as measures of acid and basic strength. 
In the above equations c refers to the stoichiometric concen- 
trations of the acid and base involved, irrespective o
f
 their 
solva,tion in the solution. It is therefore very probable that 
what are called cA and cB for the same acid-base system in 
different solvents actually correspond to entirely different A- 
and B- molecules. It might perhaps have been preferable in the 
definition of KAcid. 
and KBas. 
to let cA 
and cB denote the con- 
centrations of the real, free A- and B-molecules, if it were not 
for our llmited knowledge of the state of solvation, which does 
not suffice for calculating the concentration on this basis. 
The above constants differ from the usual constants of dis- 
sociation by containing aH+-the 
absolute activity o
f
 the 
hydrj 
on-instead 
of the hydrion concentration. One might 
wonder whether the substitution for cA and cB of the corre- 
sponding absolute activities mould carry the problem still a step 
further.' The strength constant defined in this way: 
is a real thermodynamic constant, the activity constant, quite 
independent of the medium, and this K might therefore seem 
suitable as an absolute definition of the acid strength. 
294 
J. N. BRONSTED 
A closer study, however, will easily reveal the failure of this 
method. The quantities involved in KAcid. 
viz. the absolute 
activity of the hydrion and the stoichiometric concentrations of 
A and B, are comparable for variations both of the acid and of the 
solvent, whereas the activities a, and aB 
entering in the definition 
of KAot, 
can quite well be compared for the same acid in different 
media, but by no means for different acids in the same medium. 
It is for instance impossible to measure the activity of hydro- 
chloric acid in relation to the activity of acetic acid, before both 
of these values have been k e d  by an arbitrary convention. 
Then, however, the strength constant KAct. 
will become a func- 
tion of this convention and consequently will not afford the 
absolute measure sought for. For instance, this standardization 
might be brought about by assuming activity and stoichiometric 
concentration to attain the same value in ideally dilute aqueous 
solutions, as is usually done in the thermodynamic treatment of 
electrolytes dissolved in water. KAx. 
would then be identical 
with KAcid. 
in the special case where water is the medium. A more 
general measure of acid and basic strength would be possible 
only if a particular state were found, which could represent a 
sort of general and ideal reference state. The attenuated vapor 
is actually such an ideal state, and from a theoretical point o
f
 
view the best solution of the problem would be to refer the acid 
and basic strength to the vapor state. The activities of A and B 
would then be equal to the concentrations in the vapor system, 
and the acid strength would be the acidity in an attenuated vapor 
phase at equal concentrations of A and B. A practical applica- 
tion of this principle is precluded, however, since at least two 
different species of electrically charged molecules are involved in 
the acid-basic equilibrium. 
Maintaining therefore the measures of acid and basic strength 
given above, vis : 
the next step will be to investigate more closely the influence of 
medium and ionic charge type upon these constants. 
- . 
- 
. 
. . .
.
 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
295 
By introducing the relation between the absolute activity a, 
a = cf, 
the expression for the acidity constant may be transcribed as 
follows : 
the absolute activity coefficient f and the concentration : 
&B 
?A 
in which - 
, 
aH+ 
= KAct. is a thermodynamic constant for each 
particular acid. Variations in the acidity constant by changing 
from one medium to another are consequently determined only 
by the ratio between the absolute, stoichiometric activity coeffi- 
cients fA and f B  and are notably not-as 
shown later to be the 
case for the dissociation constant-dependent 
upon the acid or 
basic character of the medium. The stoichiometric coefficients 
f A  and f B  include all the effects-especially 
also the solvation 
effect-produced 
by a change in medium, for which reason the 
variations in fA and f B  with the medium are undoubtedly of an 
individual character. Kevertheless it can be stated as a general 
rule governing the dependence of this change upon the ionic 
charge, that the higher the charge on the ion the greater will be 
the increase in its activity coefficient on changing from a medium 
of high dielectric constant to one of lower dielectric constant. 
I
f
 a series of acids of different electric charges: A-, Aa, A+, 
A++ 
etc. be considered, the changes in f for these acids and the 
corresponding bases, when the medium is changed for example 
from water of high dielectric constant to alcohol of lower dielectric 
constant, will come out according to the following scheme : 
Bcid 
Base 
f.4 
fB 
f 
A 
f B  
- 
KAcid. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
A- 
B- 
+ 
++ 
A" 
B- 
0 
+ 
A+ 
B" 
+ 
0 
+ 
+ 
A++ 
B+ 
++ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
CHEMICAL BEYIEWB, VOL. Y, 
NO. 
3 
296 
J. K. 
BRONSTED 
where an increase is denoted by + and a decrease by -. 
This 
scheme represents clearly the effect that the medium exerts upon 
the acidity constant by virtue of its dielectric constant, since the 
ratio f_A, as shown previously, determines the change in KAcid. 
fB 
Thus on proceeding from water as a solvent to alcohol, the con- 
stant for acetic acid of type A" will decrease, while it will increase 
for the ammonium ion, which is of type A+. The change will of 
course be opposite for the basicity constant, which is the recip- 
rocal of the acidity constant of the conjugate acid. 
The above rule that a decrease in the dielectric constant pro- 
duces a higher increase in the activity of the ion, the higher the 
numerical value of the electric charge, follows simply from the 
electrostatic formula for the potential of a spherical particle in 
a medium of dielectric constant D : 
where E is the unit charge of electricity, z the number of these 
charges on the particle and r the radius. 
The electrical energy of the particle is then: 
and the work which can be gained by transference from medium 
1 to medium 2: 
This work may also be written: 
G 
A = k T I n -  
fi 
(4) 
where fl and f 2  are the absolute activity coefficients in medium 
1 
and 2, respectively. 
Hence: 
ACID AKD BASIC CATALYSIS 
297 
By introducing: 
and 
we get : 
fA 
KAoid. = KAot. - 
fB 
where r A  = r B  = r. 
Max Born (21) has made use of equation (3) for calculating 
ion sizes by assuming the work performed in the transference from 
vacuum to water to be equal to the heat of hydration. For 
calculation of the change in the acidity from water to methyl 
alcohol numerical values are now introduced : 
c 
= 4.77.10-1O 
k = 1 
.37.10-16 
D
1
 = 81 
D
Z
 = 31 
T = 290 
r = 2.10+ 
the latter value having of course only an approximate and un- 
certain character. By substitution: 
log - 
f l  = 62.2 (& 
- 
&) 
zz 
f2 
fl 
fz 
log - = 1.24 za 
and 
KAcid. (Methyl 
d o . )  - 
KAcid. (Water) 
- 1.24 (2 ZB + 1). 
1
%
 
The acidity constant for acetic acid, where zB = -1 and for 
the ammonium ion where zB = 0 ought accordingly to decrease 
and increase, respectively, by 1.24 logarithmic units on passing 
298 
J. N. BRONSTED 
from water to methyl alcohol, i.e. the acid should become 17 
times weaker or stronger by this change in solvent. The observed 
change agrees always in sign with the calculation, but the numeri- 
cal value found by experiment is much higher than the calculated 
in spite of the fact that the value used for r is probably too small. 
There is nothing surprising in this disagreement, because the 
simplified picture of a molecule used in these calculations is 
certainly very far from representing its actual structure. 
It has been pointed out previously (32) that the effect of the 
medium upon the dissociation constant may be estimated by 
considering the influence of a change in the dielectric constant 
upon the forces between the dissociation products of the acid, i.e. 
between the base and the hydrion. This effect depends upon 
the type of dissociation. On proceeding from a medium o
f
 a 
higher to a medium o
f
 a lower dielectric constant the forces 
between the charged particles will increase and the dissociation 
consequently decreases if the base is negatively charged and 
increases if the base is positively charged. The diminution in 
the dissociation of acetic acid : 
EH $ 
E- + 
H+, 
brought about by changing the medium from water to aqueous 
alcohol, is therefore to be attributed largely to a corresponding rise 
in the electric attraction between the ions of the acid; conversely 
the increase in the dissociation of ferric ion: 
[Fe(H20)I] +
?
 
[FeoH 
(HzO) 
6 ] 
7 
H+, 
caused by addition of alcohol, is explained on the basis of an in- 
crease in the repulsive forces between the positive hydroxo-ion 
and the hydrion. It can be shown that this mode of attacking the 
problem gives the same quantitative results as the previous 
method, 
As long as only the electric effect is taken into account the dis- 
sociation constant on changing from one medium to another may 
be considered as inversely proportional to the number of collisions 
per second between the basic molecule and the hydrion. Using 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
299 
the method given by J. A. Christiansen (39) the influence of the 
electric forces upon the number of impacts will be determined by 
Boltzmann’s factor: 
where $g, the potential at a distance T from the center o
f
 the B 
sphere, is given by the equation: 
T being the sum of the radii of the B-molecule and the hydrion. 
The influence of the electric forces upon the number of collisions 
is thus governed by the factor: 
and consequently : 
This formula differs from (7) by containing the factor 2zB 
instead of (2eB +l). The reason for this difference is that (7) 
contains the acidity constant, whereas K in (8) stands for the 
following constant: 
the ratio between this constant and the acidity constantbeing 
1 
fH+ 
. By introducing ( 5 ) :  
- 
h-=- 
fH+ (1) 
(7) and (8) are seen to be identical. 
These formulas for the ratio between the absolute activity co- 
efficients in two solvents usually yield as already mentioned values 
300 
J. N. BROXSTED 
which are too low. These deviations are due first of all to the 
unjustified extension to real ions of the electrostatic laws for 
spherical particles but account ought also to be taken of both the 
“physical” and “chemical” solvates existing in solution in many 
cases. 
Kumerous authors have been concerned with the question of 
the dependence of dissociation and chemical potential upon the 
properties of the solvent. It is well known that Walden (177) has 
given the following empirical relation : 
!
!
 = (2) 
3 
c2 
between the dielectric constants and the concentrations, for which 
a salt shows the same dissociation in two solvents. A correspond- 
ing equation has also been developed on theoretical grounds (16, 
114). This formula gives qualitatively the same dependence o
f
 
the ion potentials upon the medium as do the above equations, 
although the lack of concordance is otherwise obvious. Numerous 
experiments on solubility and E.M.F. (101, 144, 125, 94, 160) 
give further qualitative confirmation of these results. 
Experimental data, on the influence of the medium upon what 
we have called the acidity and basicity constants are only meagre. 
The investigations have generally been concerned with the ordi- 
nary dissociation constant as for instance in recent papers by 
Schreiner (162) on strong acids in water, methyl and ethyl alco- 
hol and by Bjerrum, Unmach and Zechmeister (19) on electro- 
lytes in methyl alcohol. 
A verification of the views developed here for the influence of 
the medium upon the acidity constant can be found, however, in a 
series of investigations by Michaelis and Mizutani (138, 141, 142). 
They determine electrometrically the hydrion potential in buffer 
mixtures in water and in water-alcohol solutions and compute 
from these measurements an expression identical with the acidity 
constant. A rise in the alcohol percentage from 0 to about 90 
causes regularly a decrease in the acidity constant (2-3 logarithmic 
units) for neutral acids (acetic acid, benzoic acid etc.) and a cor- 
responding, although numerically somewhat smaller, increase in 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
30 1 
the constant for positive ions (ammonium ion, aniliniuin ion etc.)- 
which is in good agreement with the views developed above. The 
changes in the dissociation of the negative acids and the ampho- 
teric character of the amino benzoic acids are likewise in accord- 
ance with the theory. In the case of glycine the first dissociation 
step (the dissociation of the positively charged glycinium ion) 
shows a decrease in acidity on addition of alcohol, whereas 
the second step is not materially affected by the addition, this 
behavior being explained when the ampho-ion form of the glycine 
and ordinary singly-charged ions are supposed to possess a simi- 
lar sensitivity to alcohol. In agreement with this view glycine 
which is highly soluble in water is mentioned as insoluble in abso- 
lute alcohol. 
Whether the assumption made by Michaelis and Mizutani 
that the acid character of the carboxyl group is more sensitive to 
alcohol than is the basic character of the amino group is a ques- 
tion which cannot yet be definitely decided. 
The acidity and basicity constants are, as mentioned before, 
subject to more individual effects in addition to those arising from 
variations in the dielectric constant and the electric charge of the 
acid and the base. The chemical potential of a particle in a 
solution depends upon the surroundings through influences other 
than those of the electric net charge. For some non-electrolytes 
the potential is for example higher in water than in benzene, while 
the opposite may be true in other cases. Such effects must of 
course be operating quite generally, an increase in the absolute 
activity coefficient of the acid causing the acidity constant to 
increase, whereas the constant will be influenced in the opposite 
manner by a corresponding rise in the activity coefficient of the 
base. For non-electrolytes the individual effects are easily acces- 
sible to observation. In the case of ions electromotive force 
measurements-as 
in the papers quoted above-may 
be applic- 
. able but high and difficultly accessible boundary potentials will 
most likely obscure the results. Comparing a series of salts with 
a common ion, e.g. in respect to their solubilities, it is possible to 
obtain data for the activity ratio of the non-common ions in the 
two solvents. The ratio for a single ion is however not acces- 
sible by this method. 
302 
J. N. BRONSTED 
The fact that the anilinium ion and particularly the dimethyl- 
anilinium ion shows greater increase in the acidity constant from 
water to alcohol than does the electrically analogous ammonium 
ion-as 
found by Michaelis and Mizutani-represents 
an indi- 
vidual activity effect which becomes intelligible in view of the 
considerable increase in the solubility ratio amine/ammonia 
brought about by changing the solvent from water to alcohol. 
This survey will probably suffice for illustrating the convenience 
of the acidity and basicity constants as a measure of acid and basic 
strength. The change of the constants for the same acid and 
base passing from one medium to another is consistent with the 
terminology adopted, since an acid is said to.possess the greatest 
strength in the medium, in which under equal conditions, Le., at 
constant s, 
the highest acidity is produced. 
The definition 
gives to no less degree a rational comparison between the strengths 
of acids and bases in unchanged medium, since the strength in this 
case may also be measured by the acidity or basicity in the solu- 
tion under equal conditions. 
Before the investigation is extended to comprise the actual 
dissociation phenomena of dissolved acids and bases, the important 
question of the acidity and the basicity of the medium itself has 
to be studied. A certain acidity and basicity will exist in most 
solvents without any addition of acid or base, and this property 
of the pure solvent is highly important in acid-base equilibria. If, 
for example, the acidity of water is defined similarly to the acidity 
of an acid dissolved in water, we shall have: 
CB 
and this quantity might well be termed the rational acidity con- 
stant of water. It is seen, however, that the same exact meaning 
cannot be assigned to this constant, since cHZ0 
does not possess an 
explicit value as does the concentration of a dissolved substance. 
By analogy with the recognized custom of omitting the concen- 
tration of the molecules in the dissociation constant of a pure liquid, 
a new constant may be formulated as follows: 
Kiicid. ( ~ ~ 0 )  
= COH- aH+ 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
303 
which has a definite value and which therefore in contradistinc- 
tion to the preceding constant may be called the conventional 
acidity constant of water. 
The same complication appears also in the definition of the acid- 
ity constant for the H30+-ion, since the corresponding base in 
this case is thepure solvent, the conditions being analogous also in 
the definition of the basicity constants. No difficulties are en- 
countered, however, in the formulation of the corresponding 
formulas when the distinction between rational and conventional 
constants is maintained throughout the treatment. 
The scheme, expressing the acid or basic function, together with 
the formulas for the two kinds of constants is given below. (Ra- 
tional; conventional; acidity; and basicity are abbreviated to 
rat.; conv. ; 
acid. ; 
bas. respectively.) 
The acid function for HzO: 
COH- 
&at. Acid. (HzO) = - 
' aH+' 
CHZO 
The base function for HzO: 
The acid function for &O+: 
CHzO 
CHaO+ 
Krat,Acid. (Ha@) = - 
' 
aH+' 
The base function for OH-: 
HzO -j 
OH- + H+ 
Kconv.Acid. (HzO) = COH- ' aH+* 
OH- + 
H+ 
-j 
HZO 
1 
COH- - aH+ 
%ow. Bas. (OH-) 
It follows from the definitions of the constants for conjugate 
acids and bases, that KAcid (H~o). K B ~ s .  
(OH-) = K B ~ ~ .  
( ~ ~ 0 ) .  
KAcid(H30+) 
= 1, as may be seen from the above table both for 
the rational and conventional constants. 
The corresponding expressions for other solvents may easily be 
304 
J. N. BRONSTED 
formulated. The conventional basicity constant in methyl alco- 
hol is thus: 
CCH~OH~+ 
aH+ 
Kconv. Bas. (CHaOH) = - 
In order to give these constants numerical significance a general 
standardization of the hydrion activity aHt has to be made. 
This might be achieved by assuming the absolute stoichiometric 
activity coefficient of the hydrion equal to unity in an infinitely 
dilute aqueous solution, which means that cHsot 
= aHt in this 
solution. The conventional acidity constant of water is then 
identical with the “dissociation constant” in the classical sense, 
whereas the corresponding basicity constant for water is equal to 
unity. 
About the constants, derived from this standardization for other 
solvents only little is known. The hydrion potential in ethyl 
alcohol is, according to the E.M.F. measurements of Larsson 
0.149 volts higher than the potential in water of the same hydrion 
concentrations( cHaO+ = c C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ , ~ ) ,  
i.e. : 
S o n v .  
(Bas. Hz0) = 330 S o w .  
B
a
s
.
 
(CzHsOH) 
Water is consequently from the conventional constants 330 times 
as strong a base as is ethyl alcohol, whereas the difference between 
the rational constants is somewhat less. Due to the existence of 
disturbing junction potentials, the figures thus obtained are of a 
considerable uncertainty. 
It is of great importance to have these constants determined for 
different solvents. The general method for this purpose is to de- 
termine the hydrion activity in the two solvents after addition of 
known quantities of acid or base, sufficiently strong for producing 
in the solution the same concentration of the acid or base corre- 
sponding to the molecules o
f
 the medium. It might also be done 
by determining both the acidity or basicity constants and the dis- 
sociation constants of the acid and the base in the two solvents to 
be compared, as further explained below. 
So far no attention has been paid to the actual “dissociation” 
of the acid and base, which is of such outstanding importance in 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
305 
the classical theory. Proceeding now to an analysis of this 
process of dissociation it will be well to bear in mind that the free 
hydrion, as shown before, hardly has any chance of existing in the 
solution. The “dissociation” of an acid, when introduced in a 
pure solvent, is therefore dependent upon the basic character of 
the solvent, since the “dissociation” really means nothing else 
but transference o
f
 the hydrion from the acid to the solvent. The 
reaction may be written for the acid A and water as solvent as 
follows 
: 
A + 
HzO -+ 
B + 
H30+ 
(9) 
I
f
 the solvent completely lacks the character of a base, no ‘‘disso- 
ciation” will take place and the acid will dissolve unchanged in 
the medium. 
A reaction of the base similar to the above one (9) for the acid 
will take place only, when the solvent is able to yield the hydrion, 
necessary for the base if its basicity is to be manifested through a 
chemical reaction. In the case of water as a solvent the process is: 
B + 
HzO + 
A + 
OH- 
(10) 
The schemes (9) and (10) give the characteristic acid and base 
equilibria, independent of the charges on A and B. In spite of 
the reactions for acetic acid and the ammonium ion in water 
being quite analogous : 
(11) 
(12) 
the first is normally called a dissociation and the second an 
hydrolysis. Similarly o
f
 the two reactions : 
NIL + 
HzO + 
KHhf + 
OH- 
(13) 
E- + 
HzO + 
EH + OH- 
(14) 
it is usual to call (13) a dissociation and (14) a hydrolytic reaction. 
One and the same terminology ought, however, to be used for 
reactions like (11) and (12) which conform to scheme (9)-and 
again for (13) and (14) conforming to (10). It does not follow 
directly from this view, however, that schemes (9) and (10) ought 
EH + 
HzO + 
E- + 
H30+ 
NH4+ + 
HzO + 
XH3 + 
HjO+ 
306 
J. N. BRONSmD 
to be included in the same category, as has been the usual prac- 
tice for acids and bases of the same charge. 
A consideration of reaction (9) and analogous processes with 
the solvent shows that they do not represent a dissociation in the 
same sense of the word as applied to gaseous systems, but are 
in reality double decompositions, i.e., hydrolytic or solvolytic 
reactions. Xevertheless it seems adequate in the terminology 
of these reactions to disregard the solvent, the effect of which is 
the same in all cases, and call the process a dissociation in accord 
with the language historically recognized for neutral acids, the 
more so as the reaction in dilute solution is governed by laws 
conforming to the laws of a true dissociation. Once decided 
upon, this terminology has, however, to be carried through con- 
sistently in all cases, irrespective of the charge type. The forma- 
tion of the H,O+-ion should always be described as a dissocia- 
tion even when the dissociating acid is for example the ammonium 
ion or another molecule carrying an electric charge. 
The application of the term dissociation to reaction (IO) may 
be considered still more illogical, since the B-constituent does not 
decompose but on the contrary takes up a hydrion. Kevertheless 
the similarity of the two schemes (9) and (10) both representing 
an acid-base equilibrium makes it desirable to retain the term 
“dissociation” also for the case of a base dissolved in an acid 
solvent. 
We find it convenient therefore not only to keep the term dis- 
sociation for the reactions characteristic o
f
 acids and bases in 
appropriate solvents but also to generalize the application to 
comprise all such reactions, regardless o
f
 whether the acid or base 
is charged or electrically neutral. The term hydrolysis, which has 
hitherto been applied to some of these acid-basic reactions, is in 
this way elmiinated, and the ambiguity of having two expressions 
for the same phenomenon cleared away. On the other hand it 
would perhaps be preferable, to characterize the dissociation as 
being hydrolytic, alcoholytic, aminolytic etc. according to the 
solvent involved in the process. 
For characterizing various dissociation equilibria the usual 
dissociation constant employed for neutral acids and bases is well 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
307 
suited. This constant will be denoted by KA 
and KB, for the 
acid and basic dissociations respectively. Here also, as for the 
acidity and basicity constant, the distinction between rational 
and conventional constants proves relevant, since the solvent par- 
ticipates in the process of dissociation. 
I
f
 the acid and base dissociation be given by: 
A + 
H2O i
?
 B + 
H;lO+ 
and 
B + 
H2OFftA + 
OH-, 
respectively, the mass action law yields on including the solvent: 
(15) 
CB ' 
c&o+ = Krat. A 
c.4 ' 
CH20 
and 
: 
and by leaving out the solvent: 
and 
Without further specification KA 
and K
B
 will be considered as 
denoting the conventional constants. 
It follows from these considerations that an acid-base dissocia- 
tion of the pure solvent can take place only if its character is 
amphoteric, i.e. if it possesses both acid and basic properties. 
The molecules of the soh-ent are then able both to give off and 
take up hydrions. For water the electrolytic dissociation is 
determined by the process : 
H20 + 
H20 F'c H30f + 
OH-, 
308 
J. E
;
.
 BRONSTED 
one water molecule functioning as an acid forming OH- and the 
other as a base forming H30+. The analogous process in methyl 
alcohol will be : 
CH30H + 
CH30H 
CH30H2f + 
CHIO-. 
A low electrolytic dissociation for a pure solvent is hence due to 
the weak development of either its acid or its basic character. 
The great influence which the dielectric constant is known to exert 
upon the dissociation is included in its effect upon the acidity and 
basicity constants. 
Contrary to the acidity and basicity constants for which no 
common measure exists the acid and basic dissociation constants 
will be equal for the pure solvent. The previous distinction be- 
tween rational and conventional constants must also be main- 
tained here so we can write: 
cHaO+ 
COR- - 
- 
Kmt. A (HnO) 
Krat.B (H1O) 
CaHaO 
and analogously for methyl alcohol and other media of amphoteric 
character . 
The question now arises, what is the significance of the disso- 
ciation constants as measures of strength in relation to the acidity 
and basicity constants which we have introduced above as a 
general measure in this respect. 
I
f
 the equations for the acidity and basicity constants of the 
solvent are combined with the expressions for the dissolved acids 
and bases (1)-(2) and (15)-(18), we get: 
KA 
KAoid. KBas. (HIO) 
K B  = KBas. KAoid. @IO) 
The dissociation constant of an acid is therefore the product o
f
 the 
acidity constant of the acid and the basicity constant of the 
medium, and the dissociation constant of a base is the product of 
the basicity constant of the base and the acidity constant of the 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
309 
medium. Both K
A
 and KAci,j. as well as KB and Khs. are 
equally well suited as measures of strength so long as the medium 
is kept constant. We note that K
A
 and KAcid. 
are altered to 
the same extent by the change from one definite medium to 
another, since the ratio KA/KAcid 
is according to (19) independ- 
ent of the nature of the acid. The bases of course follow the same 
rule. 
For the medium itself we may write: 
cHso+ 
COH- = KA 
( ~ ~ 0 )  
= ICB ( ~ ~ 0 )  
= KAcid. ( H Q  * K B ~ ~ .  
( ~ 0 ) .  
(21) 
The acid and basic dissociation constants of the amphoteric 
solvent are consequently identical and equal to the product of 
its acidity constants as in the case of (19) and (20) for dissolved 
acids and bases. 
This equation is valid for the rational as well 
as for the conventional constant. 
Most quantitative measurements of acid and basic strength 
have had as their aim the determination of KA 
and KB. In order 
to estimate the change in these constants from one solvent to 
another, the formulas (19) and (20) have to be consulted. In 
addition to the effect of the medium upon the acidity and basicity 
constants which has already been discussed, these equations show 
that the dissociation is determined by the acid and basic nature of 
the solvent. The changes exhibited by the acidity and basicity 
constants on alteration of the medium as compared with the 
corresponding changes in the dissociation constants are thus able 
to give information concerning the acid and basic character of 
the medium. Exact investigations for the purpose of determin- 
ing the acid and basic nature of pure solvents are however not 
available, and due to this lack of experimental data the interpreta- 
tion of the dissociation phenomena as regards their dependence 
upon the medium is rendered feasible only to a very limited extent. 
Bjerrum, Unmach and Zechmeister (19) have carried out exact 
measurements on the dissociation of acetic acid and ammonia in 
methyl alcohol as well as on the dissociation constant of pure 
methyl alcohol. The acid dissociation constants, calculated 
from the constants given by Bjerrum, viz.: KEH 
= 10-94, 
310 
J. N. BRONSTED 
A log KA 
Acetic acid.. 
...................... 
-4.9 
Ammonium ion.. 
.................. 
-1.7 
K N H a  = 10-5.92 and KCHsOH = lO-”.O1, 
are tabulated below 
together with the corresponding acid constants in water: 
A log KAcid. 
A log KBas. (Medium) 
-2.3 
-2.6 
$0.8 
-2.5 
ACID 
Average. ................................................. 
I 
-2.55 
The values obtained from the two independent computations are 
thus in good agreement, indicating that pure methyl alcohol is 
about 350 times as weak a base as is pure water. 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
311 
Acetic acid. ....................... 
-5.5 
-2.7 
Benzoic acid. ...................... 
-5.9 
-3.2 
Salicylic acid.. 
.................... 
1 
-5.7 
1 
-2.8 
Average. ................................................. 
An analogous calculation, although with greater uncertainty, 
can be carried out for ethyl alcohol. The basicity constant rela- 
tive to that of water is found by comparison of the dissociation 
constants and acidity constants of acids in water and alcohol as 
exhibited in the following table. 
A is the increase from water to 
alcohol. The figures of the first column are taken from a survey 
by Larsson (125) and those in the second column from Michaelis 
and Mizutani (138). 
Change in constants from water to ethyl alcohol 
1 * 
log K~ 
I A log KAcid. I 
A log KBas. (Medium) 
-2.8 
-2.7 
-2.9 
-2.8 
According to these figures ethyl alcohol is about 600 times as weak 
a base as water. The value 330 found previously from Larsson’s 
measurements are in moderate agreement with this result. I
f
 
Larsson’s figures are right methyl and ethyl alcohol should have 
practically the same basic strength. 
It is now possible to calculate the acidity constants o
f
 the alco- 
holic media by means of formula (21). Thus for methyl alcohol: 
KA(H*O) 
= KB(H*o) - 
- 
KAcid. (HzO) K B ~ .  
(HzO) 
KA(CH,OH) 
KB(CH~OH) 
KAcid. (CHsOH) * ICBas. (CHsOH) 
or by introducing numerical values : 
By using Danner’s (41) value for the dissociation constant of 
ethyl alcohol at 18°C. 
: 
we get: 
- 
1
0
-
1
9
.
1
 
KA(C~H,OH) 
- 
4 
312 
J
.
 N. BRONSTED 
I
f
 the data-used 
for these calculations-be 
trustworthy, the 
acidity would change only slightly from water to methyl alcohol, 
but considerably from methyl alcohol to ethyl alcohol. This re- 
sult seems somewhat improbable. The experimental results are, 
therefore, at least to some extent not satisfactory. 
Further applications of the ideas developed in this chapter can 
be made on the basis of the important and extensive material pro- 
duced by H. Goldschmidt and his pupils. The detailed treatment, 
necessary for investigating these results, are somewhat beyond 
the scope of this treatise, however, and cannot therefore be 
undertaken here. 
VIII. AN EXTENDED THEORY OF ACID AiUD BASIC CATALYSIS 
The change in the conception of acids and bases as developed 
in the two preceding chapters is likely to imply also a change in 
our views of the kinetic phenomena exhibited by this group of 
substances. In fact the subjection of the general thermodynamic 
properties of acids and bases to such an elaborate treatment was 
made partly because the kinetic significance 
of these general proper- 
ties was to be expected. It might even be said that it is just in 
the field of catalysis that the effect of the reformulation of the acid- 
basic function manifests itself in a particularly definite and obvious 
manner. 
That the hydrion in solution exists only in the solvated state 
is a fact of paramount importance in elucidation of the intrinsic 
nature of acid catalysis. It follows therefrom that hydrion 
catalysis in aqueous solution cannot be due to the free hydrion 
but has rather to be ascribed to the H30+ 
or oxonium ion. How- 
ever, this ion being an acid, which according to our previous state- 
ments cannot claim a unique position within the group of acids, 
there seems to be no a priori reason to try to reserve for it a unique 
position as an acid catalyst. On the contrary it would be logical to 
attribute the property of acid catalysis to all acid molecules, i.e. 
to all molecules capable of giving off a hydrogen nucleus. The 
effect of the various acids should then depend upon the readiness 
with which the nucleus is split off, this property being in its turn 
dependent upon the strength of the acid. 
ACID AKD BASIC CATALYSIS 
313 
This mode of reasoning is valid, if the catalyzed reaction is not 
subject to a specific effect. However, the possibility of a reaction 
being catalyzed by the acid XH and not by YH must not be 
overlooked. The transformation of acetochloroamino-benzene 
into p-chloroacetanilide is thus catalyzed by hydrochloric acid, 
but not by nitric acid. Such specific phenomena are certainly o
f
 
considerable interest but since we are going to develop the general 
theory of acid-basic catalysis, it will not be necessary to deal with 
them here. 
The conclusions for basic catalysis will be quite analogous. 
Since the hydroxyl ion does not, in principle, assume any unique 
position among the bases, basic catalysis cannot be attributed 
solely to this particular ion. In general basic catalysis must be 
looked upon as the effect of the various bases involved and is 
therefore to be correlated with the ease with which a hydrogen 
nucleus is taken up, i.e. to the strength of the base. 
The extended theory here outlined thus removes the hydrion and 
hydroxyl ion from the unique position held by them in the classical 
theory of dissociation and catalysis. It ascribes quite generally 
acid and basic catalysis directly to molecules of acid and basic 
character. On the basis of these ideas a number of questions of 
importance in catalysis arise, some of which will be discussed in 
the present chapter. First we shall haye to consider however the 
new theory in its relation to the dual theory (Chap. 2), 
with which 
it might seem to have some points in common through the impor- 
tance attached to the “undissociated acids” by both theories. 
There is no doubt as to the similarities between the contents of 
the two theories, since the dual theory as well as the extended 
catalytic theory supposes the “undissociated acids” to exert 
catalytic effect. The former, however, considers the “hydrion” 
and the undissociated acid molecule as quite different species, 
thus setting up consciously a distinction between acid catalysis 
and hydrion catalysis. The present theory avoids such a dualism, 
looking upon hydrion catalysis simply as a particular instance of 
general acid catalysis. This consistency in the way of regarding 
catalytic phenomena is the theoretical strength of the extended 
theory of catalysis. The dual theory on the other hand does not 
314 
J. N. BRONSTED 
rest upon theoretical considerations and is-as 
pointed out in 
Chapter 2-based 
more than anything else upon misinterpreta- 
tion of the experimental facts. The catalytic effect used as evi- 
dence for the dual theory is in most of the cases caused by phenom- 
ena which are foreign to the views inherent in the dual theory. 
The foundation of the two theories are therefore entirely different, 
even if their contents exhibit a certain similarity. 
Except for those presented in the dual theory no views have been 
advanced previous to the present theory of catalysis, which might 
render possible a similar explanation of catalytic phenomena. Still 
mention must be made, of an investigation by Fajans, (61) sug- 
gested to him by Bredig, in which the decomposition of camphor 
and bromocamphor-carbonic acid in presence of nicotine, qui- 
nine, quinidine, etc. is interpreted as a certain kind of basic cataly- 
sis. The reaction was however, explained, as being a decomposi- 
tion of the “salt” formed with the base, Le., more or less in con- 
formity with the ionization theory of catalysis. The author men- 
tions that a deeper insight into the reaction might be obtained 
when the investigation is extended to comprise a greater number 
of bases and consideration of their strength. An extension of our 
general ideas in catalysis is however not afforded by this work, 
its aim being rather to examine the stereochemical characteristics 
of the catalyst. 
In some relation to this work Ljunggren (130) investigated the 
catalytic decomposition of acetoacetlc acid in presence of several 
organic bases. His results are of considerable interest, but no new 
points of view for their interpretation appear to have been obtained. 
Investigations of this nature may, however, prove of great value 
for the development of the present theory of catalysis. For ex- 
ample, this is the case in the mutarotation reaction of nitrocam- 
phor in various solvents, as studied by Lowry (135), 
in which sub- 
stances like piperidine, aniline, sodium ethylate, water, etc. 
showed great catalytic effect. It is probable that catalysis by 
basic molecules takes place, but the experimental data do not 
suffice for stating exactly the character of the reaction. 
In later investigations on mutarotation by Lowry and his co- 
workers (65, 132, 134, 136), attention has especially been called 
ACID AXD BASIC CATALYSIS 
315 
to the acid or basic character of the solvent. Evidence of much 
greater consequence for the extended theory of catalysis has been 
furnished, however, by certain reactions in aqueous solutions 
especially by the catalytic decomposition of nitramide and the 
mutarotation of glucose. Before proceeding to present the ex- 
perimental verifications of the theory obtained by means of these 
reactions we shall try to analyze the mechanism of catalysis in order 
to obtain some idea of the important question of the significance 
of the acid and basic strength of the catalyst. 
The primary condition for catalysis is the possibility o
f
 the 
molecules of the catalyst and the substrate forming new molecu- 
lar complexes on colliding. These complexes may in conformity 
with previous proposals be called critical complexes. I
f
 the 
catalyst be an acid it seems natural to picture the reaction in the 
first step as a transference of the hydrogen nucleus of the catalyst 
into the substrate molecule. The binding of the hydrogen nucleus 
occurring in molecules of high energy content, might then cause a 
disruption of the structure of the substrate molecule resulting in 
the formation of a stable product as the next step. The catalytic 
mechanism of the reaction A-tB might then be presented as 
follofi~s 
: 
A + KH --+ (A, KH) --f (AH, K) --$ (BH, 
K) + 
(B, KH) --+ B + 
KH, 
where KH is the acid catalyst and the parentheses signify the 
molecular complexes reacting. 
Similarly in basic catalysis the shock, initiating the reaction, 
is supposed to be caused by the transference of a hydrogen nucleus 
from the substrate to the catalyst within the complex. As an 
illustration o
f
 the mechanism of the process AH-+BH we thus can 
write : 
AH + K + 
(AH, K) --+ (A, KH) -+ (B, KH) -+ (BH, K) + 
BH + 
K, 
where K is the catalyst base. 
This picture can, of course, only give a rough sketch of what 
happens in the process, since the symbols in these schemes are 
rather undefined in their character. For example, nothing is 
316 
J. N. BRONSTED 
said as to whether the passage of the hydrogen nucleus proceeds 
continuously or whether, as may be expected, it occurs as a 
quantum jump. Also the effect of the solvent molecules in acting 
as receivers and transmitters of energy has been left out of the 
considerations. Xevertheless the above schemes, however in- 
complete in presenting an exact picture of catalysis, seem to be 
serviceable as a basis for further conclusions in particular as re- 
gards the influence of the acid and basic strength. 
The mechanism suggested contains an important consequence 
with respect to the nature of the substrate. It is obvious that acid 
and basic catalysis require a substrate of basic and acidic nature, 
respectively. These properties need not be developed, however, 
to such an extent as to permit of detection by general methods 
for measuring acidity and basicity. Only in the case of substrates 
and solvents containing no hydrogen can the absence of acid 
character and therefore of basic catalysis with certainty be 
predicted. 
From the above one might perhaps feel inclined to believe that 
after all the distinction between the ionization theory and the 
present theory of acid and basic catalysis is comparatively slight. 
For instance the kinetic reaction determining the velocity in the 
acid catalytic transformation A 3 
B, according to the extended 
theory is: 
(AH, K) 4 
(BH, K) 
and according to the ionization theory: 
AH--tBH 
In the latter theory, however, AH is a normal molecule whose 
conversion into BH is no more intelligible than the original reac- 
tion A-tB for which it was expected to furnish an explanation, 
whereas (AH, K) is a critical complex capable of instantaneous 
reaction. Furthermore, as pointed out in Chapter 3 the empirical 
consequences of the two points of view may differ fundamentally, 
which makes it possible to take a more definite standpoint 
towards the main idea of the ionization theory. 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
317 
* 
bases : 
For this purpose consider the following process catalyzed by 
XH -+ YH 
As mentioned in Chapter 3, it is impossible from the shape of the 
reaction curve to make any distinction between a hydroxyl ion 
catalysis and a spontaneous reaction of the X--ion. 
This is due 
to the proportionality between the concentration of the X--ion 
and the product of the XH and OH--concentrations in the 
equilibrium : 
XH+OH-*X-+H*O 
This proportionality in turn is conditioned by the fact that the 
fourth molecule in the equilibrium, the acid conjugate to the 
catalyzing base, is present, as the solvent, i.e. in unvariable 
concentration. 
I
f
 the hydroxyl ion is present in non-aqueous solution, or if the 
basic catalysis in water is due to some catalyst other than the 
hydroxyl ion this daculty obviously disappears. I
f
 the acetate 
ion, for example, be the catalyst the corresponding equilibrium: 
XH + 
E-Ft.X- + 
EH 
evidently permits of a change in the product of the XH and E- 
concentrations without requiring a simultaneous change in the con- 
centration of the X- -ion. It should be possible from that kind of 
experiments to decide, which of the two theories is correct. 
For instance in acetate-acetic 
acid buffers of constant ratio 
between the buffer constituents but of variable total concentration, 
the ionization theory in the absence of salt effects demands con- 
stant rate of reaction whereas the extended theory of catalysis 
would require variations if a detectable catalytic effect can be 
ascribed to the acetate ion. 
It should be noted, however, that even if the experimental 
test cornes out in favor of the extended theory the possibility of a 
collateral spontaneous decomposition of the X--ion in the course 
of the OH--catalysis is not excluded. 
In order to study this 
possibility a closer investigation of the general laws governing acid 
318 
J. N. BRONSTED 
and basic catalysis particularly as regards the effect of the strength 
of the catalyst is required. 
The dependence of the catalytic effect upon the strength of 
the catalyzing acids and bases is actually a question of paramount 
importance in the present theory. The readiness with which a 
hydrogen nucleus is given off by an acid and taken up by a base 
may be assumed to be greater the greater the strength of the acid 
and the base, and hence the catalytic effect would be expected to 
increase with increasing strength of the acid and the base. The 
simplest scheme would be to assume direct proportionality be- 
tween the catalytic constant and the strength constant of the acid 
or basic catalyst, in which case: 
k, = GKA, 
where k
,
 and K, denote the catalytic and dissociation constant 
of the acid catalyst respectively and G is a constant dependent 
only upon temperature, pressure, medium and substrate. Obedi- 
ence to such a simple relation, however, cannot be expected for 
the following reasons : 
The probability of the hydrogen nucleus leaving the acid mole- 
cule and forming the reacting complex with the substrate can 
hardly be directly related to the strength of the acid but rather to 
the rate at which the acid dissociates, i.e. reacts with the solvent 
to form hydrion solvate and the conjugate base. The “dissocia- 
tion” equilibrium in an acid solution is, like any other equilibrium, 
supposed to be kinetic in nature; so that the equilibrium for, say, 
acetic acid in water: 
EH + 
H20 e 
E- + 
H30+ 
is the state in which the two opposing reactions proceed with the 
same velocity. I
f
 the reaction from left to right be (arbitrarily) 
called a dissociation, from right to left an association, and the cor- 
responding velocity constants kdiss. and k
,
,
,
.
 the dissociation 
constant is given by: 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
319 
It is obvious, then, that the same strength may correspond for 
different 
acids to quite different values of kdiss. and k,,,. 
We must expect that the catalytic constant k a  is more closely 
related to kdiss. than to K, because the processes of catalysis and 
of dissociation are of analogous character. In the former reaction 
the hydrion is given off to a complex, which undergoes a further 
decomposition, whereas in the latter the hydrion is given off to 
one of the solvent molecules, with which it might stay united for 
a certain length of time before being lost again. However, what 
happens after addition of the hydrion cannot be essential for 
the probability of the addition process and it is therefore most 
likely that the velocity of the two processes follows the same law. 
This conclusion may be further defined by introducing the criti- 
cal energy of reaction. 
The difference between the critical 
energies E d i s s .  and Ea corresponding to the “dissociation” and 
the catalysis, is independent of the catalyst for a given reaction 
in the same solvent. I
f
 the velocity constant for the acid dissocia- 
tion be kdiss. and for the catalysis k a  we get: 
Ea 
k
,
 = k 
e-- 
and 
Ediss. 
-- 
kdiss. = k e 
RT 
whence the ratio between the two velocity constants is found 
equal to: 
This equation shows that for different catalysts in the same reac- 
tion and medium the velocity constants of the acid catalysis and 
the acid dissociation are proportional. 
Experiments for determining the velocity of dissociation have 
shown it to be of a high order of magnitude without having suc- 
ceeded in determining absolute values. As to the relative disso- 
ciation velocities we may, however, make certain conjectures. 
320 
J. T
u
'
.
 BRONSTED 
According to the kinetic conception of the dissociation constant 
as expressed by formula (l), 
this constant can only vary simul- 
taneously with kdiaa. and k
,
,
,
.
 
The simplest assumption is that 
-in 
any case for acids of the same type-an 
increase in the rate of 
dissociation from one acid to another is accompanied by a decrease 
in the rate of association and vice versa, so that in other words 
the change in strength, observed for a series of analogous acids, is 
caused by concerted changes in kdiss. and k,,,. 
This means that passing on from one acid to another K
A
 will 
have to change more markedly than do kdisa. and k
,
,
,
.
 
This 
result may be expressed by the following equation: 
in which G is a constant and x a proper fraction. The numerical 
value of the latter cannot be estimated a priori, nor is it permis- 
sible to assign in advance any constant value to it, independent of 
the acid strength. It is however reasonable to assume x to be a 
continuous function of K for acids of the same type. 
I
f
 the proportionality between the velocities o
f
 dissociation and 
of catalysis is introduced into equation (2) we get: 
k
,
 = GI K
:
 
(3) 
as the relation which may be anticipated to exist between the 
catalytic constant and the dissociation constant of an acid. 
Analogous considerations can be applied to basic catalysis. 
We assume proportionality between the catalytic constant and 
the velocity constant of association and further that the ratio 
between these constants does not change with the nature o
f
 the 
base. Furthermore from formula (1) and (2) is deduced: 
k,,,. = G Ki- * 
where KA 
is the dissociation constant of the corresponding acid. 
I
f
 we now introduce the base constant from the relation: 
Ka Kg = dissociation constant of medium 
we get: 
k
,
,
,
.
 = G' Kk-" 
(4) 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
321 
and consequently: 
kb = G
z
 Kk-'. 
(5) 
It follows from these equations first, that the value of x is 
independent of the nature of the substrate. 
Secondly the equa- 
tions give information concerning the relation between the cataly- 
sis of conjugate acids and bases. It follows from the derivation 
that x has the same value in the two equations for conjugate 
acids and bases: 
k
,
 = GIKZ, k
b
 = a&;-'. 
I
f
 x-as 
a proper fraction-varies 
from 0 to 1 the sensitivity of 
the acid catalysis to changes in K, will rise gradually'from 0 to 1, 
while at the same time the sensitivity of the basic catalysis will 
fall gradually from 1 
to 0. A sensitivity equal to zero means that 
the catalytic constant does not change with the strength of the 
catalyst, whereas a sensitivity equal to 
unity means that the varia- 
tion is directly proportional to it. These two cases are of course 
limiting cases, the sensitivity normally deviating from these 
minimum and maximum values. However, it appears from the 
formula, that if the acid catalysis displays great sensitivity to 
changes in the strength constant, the basic catalysis will display 
low sensibility and vice versa. 
It is obvious that the views advanced here lead to a theory of 
acid and basic catalysis, which in its principle rests on a broader 
foundation than previous theories. It must be admitted, how- 
ever, that the premises which lie at the root of t'he theory, although 
plausible, are not absolutely cogent in their nature, and it might 
therefore prove necessary on closer examination to modify these 
assumptions in different directions. Experimental test is of 
course the most direct way of attaining a measure of the value of 
the theory. 
In the experimental investigation of the present theory of 
catalysis we have, however, to consider some particular circum- 
stances of significance in correlating the efficacy of catalysts of 
different type with the corresponding strength constants. 
The 
catalytic as well as the acid and basic properties are generally not 
322 
J
.
 N. 
BRONSTED 
determined solely by the firmness with which the hydrion ic 
attached to the acid molecule, but also depend upon the number 
of ionizable hydrogen nuclei possessed by the acid molecule and 
upon the number of points in the base molecule to which the hy- 
drion can attach itself. 
I
f
 the acid molecule contains only one acid hydrogen atom and 
the corresponding base only one point of attack, we have the 
statistically simplest acid-base system, represented for instance 
by the phenol-phenolate system: 
CsHsOH S 
CsH5O- + 
H+ 
The number of acid hydrogen atoms in the acid molecule being 
denoted by p and the number of points of attack in the base mole- 
cule by q, we have for this simple case: p = q = 1. 
In the first dissociation step for hydroquinone : 
/OH+ 
/O- 
+ H +  
‘
O
H
 
C6H4 
\OH t 
C6H4 
we have two ionizable hydrogen atoms in the acid and one point of 
attack in the base. Hence p = 2 and q = 1 
in this case, whereas 
for the second dissociation step : 
0- 
0- 
C I H ~ ( ~ ~  
CbH4( 
-I- H+ 
0- 
p = 1 
and g = 2, etc. 
For the purpose of studying the influence of these statistical 
conditions upon acid and basic strength we must attribute to all 
ionizable hydrions the same fixity in the molecule. Of course we 
must also assume the statistical conditions to be completely 
obeyed according to the above simple picture. It is then clear 
that in the above examples hydroquinone, in the first step of 
dissociation will be twice, and in the second step half as strong an 
acid as phenol, and that, in general, the dissociation constant of 
an acid will be given by: 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
323 
P 
-- 
1
2
 
4 
3 
3 
2 
4 
3 
2 
1 
1 
'
2
 
1 
1 
1 
where Ka, signifies the dissociation constant in the statistically 
simple acid-base system of the same hydrogen fixity. The ratio 
p/q will be called the statistical acid strength factor. For the 
conjugate base the relation: 
analogous to (6) is easily seen to hold, the ratio q/p being termed 
the statistical basic strength factor. The following table gives 
the statistical factors for a series of acid-base systems as com- 
puted from the formulas (6) and (7). The systems are arranged 
in the order of decreasing values of p/q. 
ACID 
BA0B 
9 
- 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
3 
2 
2 
1 
1 
3 
2 
4 
4 
It should not be overlooked, however, that these values are not 
entirely free of assumptions. For example, it has been assumed 
that the carboxyl group after the ionization of its hydrogen atom 
has two points of attack; in other words the two oxygen atoms of 
the ion : 
are equally available for the hydrion. This implies t,hat 
the nega- 
324 
J
.
 N. BROKSTED 
tive charge is not specifically attached to the oxygen atom in the 
hydroxyl group and that the formula R-C Ho 
is justified only 
as a description of the undissociated acid. Looking upon this 
condition from the standpoint of structural chemistry such cases 
may however be of special interest since the conclusions regarding 
statistical factors drawn from catalytic experiments might in many 
cases throw some light on difficultly accessible questions of struc- 
tural chemistry. 
For acid and basic catalysis the significance of the statistical 
strength factors is seen in the following manner. The previous 
deduction of the relation between the catalytic and strength 
constants : 
'
O
H
 
k
,
 
= GlK;, 
kb = G&-" 
pre-supposes the simple statistical condition p = q = 1. These 
expressions ought now to be written : 
k
,
,
 = GlK;,, 
kb = G2Kk:" 
(8), (9) 
in order to distinguish between the slmple and the more com- 
plicated cases. These expressions are also valid for the more 
complicated cases as far as the influence of firmness of attach- 
ment of the hydrion upon the catalysis is concerned. However, 
an additional factor enters, namely that the catalytic effect o
f
 an 
acid may be proportional to the number o
f
 acid hydrions and the 
effect of a base proportional to the points exposed to attack from 
the hydrion. Therefore: 
k
a
 = pkau kb = qkbo 
Introducing these equations together with (6) and (7) into (8) and 
(9) the following expressions for the acid catalysis are obtained: 
or 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
325 
and for the basic catalysis: 
or 
These equations require, just as in (6) and (7) a complete con- 
formity to the statistical requirements. 
As the chief result of these considerations we may state that 
the presence of complicated statistlical 
conditions in the acid-base 
system will affect the catalytic activity of the acid and the base in 
proportion to the change in the factor: 
this effect according to formula (10) and (11) being the same in 
acid and basic catalysis. I
f
 it were permissible to consider x as 
independent of the nature of the reaction it would follow from the 
results of the nitramide catalysis that x is considerably smaller 
than 1-x and that the factor p therefore is of higher influence than 
is q. In this case the catalysis by bases would depend upon their 
strength constants to .a greater extent than would catalysis by 
acids. 
In the special case of hydrion catalysis in aqueous solutions p 
equals 3, since H30+ 
acts as a catalyst, whereas p, for example, 
for acetic acid and related organic acids is equal to unity. This 
circumstance of course to some extent displaces the catalytic 
conditions in favor of the hydrion more or less obscuring the cataly- 
tic effect of the weak acid. 
Investigations on the catalytic decomposition o
f
 nitramide 
have furnished the most important experimental evidence of the 
present theory of acid and basic catalysis. This substance dis- 
covered by Thiele and Lachmann (174) corresponds to the formula 
HzSzOz 
without showing the chemical properties expected of the 
amide of nitric acid. As already found by the discoverers, the 
326 
J
.
 N. BRONSTED 
substance is decomposed practically instantaneously in basic 
solutions according to the scheme : 
H2N202 * 
N20 + 
H2O 
A closer investigation (37, 34) of this reaction in aqueous solu- 
tions has shown that within certain limits of basicity the process 
is composed of two partial reactions; a spontaneous one, proceed- 
ing independently of the acidity of the solution, and a catalytic 
one. All bases seem to act as catalysts, the term base being used in 
conformity with the definition in Chapter 6. I
f
 the solution be 
sufficiently acid, the base effect is depressed, and the spontaneous 
reaction is the only factor of importance. This reaction is strictly 
monomolecular and has a half-period of 13.7 hours at 15". 
In an 0.01 equimolar acetate buffer solution (0.01 m. acetate 
+ 0.01 m. acetic acid) the rate of decomposition is about 15 times 
as great as the velocity of the spontaneous reaction. 
This effect 
as may easily be shown by varying the ratio acetate/acetic acid, 
is proportional to the concentration of the acetate ion and should 
therefore be considered as an acetate ion catalysis. The anions 
of other organic acids such as propionic acid, benzoic acid, formic 
acid, salicylic acid, etc. have a similar effect. The same behav- 
ior is furthermore shown by anions of polybasic acids and by 
amines like aniline, toluidine, chloroaniline, etc. Since changes 
in hydrion concentration at constant concentration of anions or of 
amines do not affect the catalysis, the reaction conforms actually 
to the requirements of the extended theory of basic catalysis. 
The determination of the constants in the catalytic decomposi- 
tion of nitramide when brought into relation with the correspond- 
ing strength constants yields the following expression: 
kb = 6.2 
Kis3, 
which is valid for basic anions of a series of organic acids, whereas 
the expression : 
kb = 1.7 - 
B 
holds for cyclic amines. 
These equations conform to formula (5), deduced from theoreti- 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
327 
cal considerations, the exponent 1 - 
x being a proper fraction while 
the above theoretical reasoning was unable to yield any informa- 
tion as to the variation of the exponent with the strength of the 
base, the measurements give the interesting result that 1 - 
x is 
constant within every group of bases, despite the considerable 
changes (from 2.10-6 to 10-2 for the anions and from 0.7.10-6 
to 2.10-3 for the amines) in the dissociation constants. 
While the effect of the cyclic amines and the anions of the weak 
acids are but slightly different other basic catalysts exhibit a 
much higher catalytic activity. The polyvalent basic cations, 
as for example : 
possess extraordinary catalytic effects easily noticeable even in 
strongly acid solution. The difference in the catalytic efficiency 
of different catalytic groups is not surprising, but on the contrary 
must be expected from a consideration of the catalytic mechanism. 
Since the association is a reaction between the base molecule and a 
positively charged hydrion, whereas the catalytic reaction takes 
place between the base molecule and a neutral nitramide mole- 
cule, parallelism between k
b
 and Kb 
is only to be expected as long 
as the catalyst is of unchanged charge type. I
f
 we consider the 
association and catalytic processes for two bases of different 
charge: B and B++: 
B + 
+ 
(B,H30)+, 
(12) 
and 
and assume the velocity to be the same for (14) and (15), i.e. 
B and B++ 
having the same catalytic influence, reaction (12) must 
necessarily proceed faster than (13) owing to the marked repulsive 
328 
J. N. BRONSTED 
forces affecting 
the latter reaction. In the case of the same cataly- 
tic effect 
B is consequently a stronger base than B++, 
Le. at the 
same rate of association-and this in turn, according to our theory, 
means the same basic strength-the 
catalytic effect is highest 
for the ion carrying the highest positive charge. This explains 
the high catalytic power of the bivalent hydroxo ions, but a 
similar effect called for by the theory when comparing bases 
having one negative and zero charge respectively does not seem to 
be present. 
The problems of great physico-chemical interest further at- 
tached to the nitramide catalysis have been treated in the papers 
quoted above and need not be taken up here. The factors there 
discussed should, however, be taken into consideration in a general 
quantitative examination of the theory. 
Another reaction probably of no less significance for importance 
in the theory of acid and basic catalysis is the mutarotation of 
glucose. Euler has found that certain ions have an anomalous 
effect upon the mutarotation of glucose, and Kuhn and Jacob 
have subjected this anomaly to a closer study in their paper 
previously mentioned. 
The phenomenon observed is the ac- 
celeration of the glucose transformation by certain ions like ace- 
tate, phosphate and citrate ions. The latter authors interpret the 
phenomenon as being an effect of these ions upon the activity o
f
 
the reactants, this interpretation being obviously related to the 
view of the general significance of activity in catalytic reactions 
which has already been criticized in chapter 4. This explanation 
of the specific effect of the ions however offers no clue to the un- 
derstanding of the phenomenon. 
It is natural, however, to apply to this “anomaly” the same 
ideas which have proved so fruitful in the case of the nitramide 
catalysis. The reaction is a transformation o
f
 alpha-glucose into 
beta-glucose leading to an equilibrium between the two modifica- 
tions (155). Hydrions and hydroxyl ions as well as acetate, phos- 
phate and citrate ions act as catalysts. Furthermore the reaction 
is partly a“spontaneous” one; Le. within a certain range of acidity 
the velocity is practically constant in absence o
f
 other catalysts. 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
329 
All of these phenomena are undoubtedly to be interpreted on the 
basis of the extended theory of acid and basic catalysis. 
Examination of this hypothesis by means of the data of Kuhn 
and Jacob is made difficult by the fact that these authors have 
conducted their experiments from the standpoint of the “activity 
theory” without, however, carrying through the work consistently 
on this basis. It is possible, however, by introducing concentra- 
tion instead of activity throughout to obtain some idea of the 
magnitude of the catalytic effect. 
The following equation for the spontaneous reaction by hy- 
drions and hydroxyl ions according to Kuhn and Jacob is valid 
at 25°C. : 
lo4 
k 
= 104 + 
3300 CH+ 3- 9.3 * 10’ COH- 
This equation does not differ much from the formula given by 
Hudson mentioned previously. In the experiments with acetate, 
phosphate, etc. that part of the reaction, not due to the presence 
of these anions, can be eliminated by this equation, cH+ 
and 
cOH- 
being approximately known, and in this way the effect of 
the anions can be calculated approximately. 
This calculation 
shows primarily that the effect is nearly proportional to the con- 
centration of the anion in agreement with the theory. More- 
over the catalytic effect is found to increase with the basic strength 
o
f
 the anion as in the case o
f
 the nitramide catalysis; but scarcity 
of data does not permit a determination of the quantitative rela- 
tion between catalytic constant and basic strength. 
However, in a study o
f
 mutarotation at present in progress in 
this laboratory, we have been able to establish definitely the pres- 
ence of such catalysis and to determine it quantitatively for a series 
of bases o
f
 varying type. Similarly-and 
in this respect the 
results extend further than those for nitramide-we 
have obtained 
an analogous effect for acids in agreement with the views given 
here. Experiments on mutarotation have therefore already con- 
tributed importantly to the establishment of the extended theory. 
When we consider that these new phenomena have been observed 
in the study of a reaction which for a generation has been the 
subject of extensive experimental research, we may well believe 
CHEMICAL REVIEWB, VOL. 
V, NO. 
3 
330 
J. S. BRONSTED 
that a systematic study in the field of acid and basic catalysis will 
afford corresponding results in illustration of the ideas developed 
in these chapters. 
LITERATURE 
(1) AKERLOF, Z. physik. Chem. 98,260 (1921). 
(2) ACREE, 
Am. Chem. J. 39, 513 (1908). 
(3) ACREE, 
Am. Chem. J. 48, 352 (1912). 
(4) ACREE, 
Am. Chem. J. 49, 345 (1913). 
(5) ACREE 
A. JOHNSON, 
Am. Chem. J. 37, 410 (1907). 
(6) ACREE 
A. JOHNSON, 
Am. Chem. J. 38, 258 (1907). 
(7) ACREE 
A. NIRDLINGER, 
Am. Chem. J. 38, 489 (1907). 
(8) ARRHENIUS, 
Bih. Stockh. Akad. 8, Nr. 14 (1884), Z. physik. Chem. 1, 
(9) ARRHENIUS, 
Z. physik. Chem. 1, 111 (1887). 
(IO) ARRHENIUS, 
Z. physik. Chem. 2, 284 (1888). 
(11) ARRHENIUS, 
Z. physik. Chem. 4, 226 (1889). 
(12) ARRHENIUS, 
Z. physik. Chem. 6 , l  (1890). 
(13) ARRHENIUS, 
Z. physik. Chem. 31, 197 (1899). 
(14) AUERBACH, 
Ergeb. exakt. Naturwiss. 1, 
228 (1922). 
(15) BAUR, 
Ann. 296,95 (1897). 
(16) BAUR, 
Z. Elektrochem. 11, 
936 (1905). 
(17) BJERRUM, 
Z. Elektrochem. 24, 321 (1918), Fys. Tidsskr. 16, 59 (1916) 
(18) BJERRUM, 
Z. physik. Chem. 108, 82 (1924). 
(19) BJERRUM, 
UNMACH 
0. 
ZECHMEISTER, 
D. Vid. Selsk. Medd. 6, Nr. 11 (1924). 
(20) BLANHSMA, 
Rec. P. B. 21, 366 (1902), 22, 290 (1903). 
(21) BORN, 
Z. physik. 1, 
45 (1920). 
(22) BRAY 
A. LIVINGSTON, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 46, 1251 (1923). 
(23) BREDIG, 
8. Elektrochem. 18, 534 (1912). 
(24) BREDIG 
u. FRAENCKEL, 
Ber. 39, 1756 (1906). 
(25) BRED~G 
u. RIPLEY, 
Ber. 40, 4015 (1907). 
(26) BREDIG 
u. WALTON, 
2. 
physik. Chem. 47, 185 (1904). 
(27) BRONSTED, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
119, 574 (1921). 
(28) BRONSTED, 
Z. physik. Chem. 102, 169 (1922). 
(29) BRONSTED, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
44, 
938 (1922). 
(30) BRONSTED, 
Rec. P. B. 42, 718 (1923). 
(31) BRONSTED, 
2. physik. Chem. 116, 337 (1925). 
(32) BRONSTED, 
J. Phys. Chem. 30, 777 (1926). 
(33) BRONSTED 
u. DELBAKCO, 
Z. anorg. allgem. Chem. 144, 248 (1925). 
(34) BRONSTED 
u. Drus, Z. physik. Chem. 117,299 (1925). 
(35) BRONSTED 
A. KING, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
47, 2523 (1925). 
(36) BRONSTED 
A. LAMER, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
46, 555 (1924). 
(37) BRONSTED 
u. PEDERSEN, 
Z. physik. Chem. 108, 185 (1924). 
(38) BRONSTED 
A. TEETER, 
J. Phys. Chem. 28, 579 (1924). 
(39) CHRISTIANSEX, 
Z. physik. Chem. 113, 35 (1924). 
(40) CHRISTIANSEN, 
Z. physik. Chem. 117, 433 (1925). 
(41) DANNER, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
44, 
2824, 2832 (1922). 
631 (1887). 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
331 
(42) DANSON, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
99, 1 (1911). 
(44) DAWSON 
A. POWIS, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
103, 2135 (1913). 
(45) DAWSON 
A. 
REIXANN, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
107, 1426 (1915). 
(46) DAWSON 
A. WHEATLEY, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
97,2048 (1910). 
(47) DEBYE 
A. H ~ C K E L ,  
Physik. Z. 24, 185 (1923). 
(48) DIMROTH, 
Ann. 377, 128 (1910). 
(49) EBERT, 
Jahrb. Rad. El. 18, 134 (1921). 
(50) EBERT, 
Z. Elektrochem. 31, 113 (1925). 
(51) EULER, 
Z. physik. Chem. 28, 619 (1899). 
(52) EULER, 
Sv. Vet. Akad. Forh. 1899 Xr. 4. 
(53) EULER, 
Z. physik. Chem. 32,348 (1900). 
(54) EULER, 
Z. physik. Chem. 36, 641 (1901). 
(55) EULER 
u. HEDELIUS, 
Biochem. Z. 107, 150 (1920). 
(56) EULER, 
MYRBACK 
0. 
RUDBERG, 
Ark. Kem. Min. Geol. 8, Nr. 28 (1923), 
Z. anorg. allgem. Chem. 127, 244 (1923). 
(57) EULER 
0. 
LAUR~N, 
Ark. Kem. Min. Geol. 7, Nr. 30 (1920). 
(58) EULER 
0. 
SVANBERG, 
Z. physiol. Chem. 116, 139 (1921). 
(59) EULER 
u. @LANDER, Z. anorg. allgem. Chem. 147, 295 (1925). 
(60) EULER, 
@LANDER u. RUDBERG, 
Z. anorg. allgem. Chem. 146, 45 (1925). 
(61) F-IJANS, 
Z. physik. Chem. 73, 25 (1910). 
(62) FAJANS, 
Ber. physik. Ges., 21, 709 (1919). 
(63) FAJANS 
u. Joos, Z. physilr. 23, 1 (1924). 
(64) FALES 
A. hIORELL, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 44,2071 (1922). 
(65) FAULKNER 
A. LOWRY, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
127, 1080 (1925). 
(66) FITZGERALD 
.
4
.
 LAPWORTH, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
93, 2163 (1908). 
(67) FRAENCKEL, 
Z. physik. Chem. 60,202 (1907). 
(68) FRANCIS 
A. CLIBBEN, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
101, 2358 (1912). 
(69) FRANCIS 
A. GEBKE, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
103, 1722 (1913). 
(70) FRANKLIN, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
46, 2137 (1924). 
(71) GEFFCKEN, 
Z. phys. Chem. 49, 257 (1904). 
(72) GOLDSCHMIDT, 
Ber. 28, 3218 (1895). 
(73) GOLDSCHMIDT, Ber. 29, 2208 (1896). 
(74) GOLDSCHMIDT, 
Z. Elektrochem. 16, 
4 (1909). 
(75) GOLDSCHMIDT, 
Z. physik. Chem. 70, 627 (1910). 
(76) GOLDSCHMIDT, 
Z. Elektrochem. 17, 684 (1911). 
(77) GOLDSCHMIDT, 
Z. physik. Chem. 94, 233 (1920). 
(78) GOLDSCHMIDT 
u. BRANAAS, 
Z. physik. Chem. 96, 180 (1920). 
(79) GOLDSCHMIDT 
u. DAHLL, 
Z. physik. Chem. 108,121 (1924). 
(80) GOLDSCHMIDT 
u. DAHLL, 
Z. physik. Chem. 114, 1 (1925). 
(81) GOLDSCHMIDT, JOHNSEN 
u. OVERWIEN, 
Z. physilr. Chem. 110, 251 (1924). 
(82) GOLDSCHMIDT 
U. THUESEN, 
Z. physik. Chem. 81, 30 (1912). 
(83) GOLDSCHMIDT 
u. UDBY, 
Z. physik. Chem. 60, 728 (1907). 
(84) GHOSH, 
J. Chem. SOC. 113, 449, 627, 707, 790 (1918). 
(85) GHOSH, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
117, 823, 1390 (1920). 
(86) GHOSH, 
Z. physik. Chem. 98, 211 (1921). 
(87) GRUBE 
U. SCHhIID, z. 
physilr. Chem. 119, 19 (1926). 
(88) HALBAN, 
Z. Elektrochem. 29, 434 (1923). 
(43) DANSON 
A. CRANN, J. Chem. SOC. 109, 1272 (1916). 
332 
J. N. BRONSTED 
(89) HALRAN, 
Z. Elektrochem. 30, 601 (1924). 
(90) HANTZSCH, 
Z. Elelrtrochem. 29, 221 (1923). 
(91) HANTZSCH, 
Z. Elektrochem. 30, 194 (1924). 
(92) HARDMAN 
A. LAPWORTH, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
99, 2242 (1911). 
(93) HARNED, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
40, 1461 (1918). 
(94) HARNED 
A. FLEYSHER, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
47, 82 (1925). 
(95) HARNED 
A. PFANSTIEL, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
44, 2193 (1922). 
(96) HARNED 
A. SELTZ, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
44, 1475 (1922). 
(97) HENRY, 
Z. physik. Chem. 10, 96 (1892). 
(98) HOLMBERG, 
Z. physik. Chem. 80,587 (1912). 
(99) HUDSON, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
29, 1572 (1907). 
(100) HUCKEL, 
Ergeb. exakt. Naturwiss. 3, 200 (1924). 
(101) JONES, 
Z. physik. Chem. 14, 346 (1894). 
(103) JONES 
A. LEWIS, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
117, 1120 (1920). 
(104) J~RGENSEN, 
D. Vid. Selsk. Skr., Mathem-naturv. Afd. (8) 2, Nr. 1 
(1916). 
(105) KAILAN, 
Monatsh., 27, 543 (1906). 
(106) KAILAN, 
Z. physik. Chem. 94, 111 (1920). 
(107) KARLSSON, 
Z. anorg. allgem. Chem. 119, 69 (1921). 
(108) KASTLE, 
Am. Chem. J. 19, 894 (1897). 
(109) KENDALL, 
Proc. Am. Acad. Sc. 7, 56 (1921). 
(110) KENDALL 
A. BOOGE, 
J. Chem. Soc. 127, 1768 (1925). 
(111) KENDALL, 
BOOGE 
A. ANDREWS, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
39,2303 (1917). 
(112) KENDALL 
A. BR.4KELEY, J. Am. Chem. soc. 43, 1826 (1921). 
(113) KENDALL 
A. KING, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
127, 1778 (1925). 
(114) KRUGER, 
Z. Elektrochem. 17, 464 (1911). 
(115) KUHN, 
Z. physik. Chem. 114, 44 (1925). 
(116) KUHN 
u. JACOB, 
Z. physik. Chem. 113, 389 (1924). 
(117) KULLGREN, 
Z. physik. Chem. 37, 613 (1901). 
(118) VAN LAAR, 
Arch. Teyler (2) 7, I, 1 (1900). 
(119) VAN LAAR, z. anorg. allgem. Chem. 139, 108 (1924). 
(120) LAPWORTH, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
83, 598 (1903). 
(121) LAPWORTH, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
86, 30 (1904). 
(122) LAPWORTH, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
93,2187 (1908). 
(123) LAPWORTH, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
107, 857 (1915). 
(124) LAPWORTH 
A PARTINGTON, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
97, 19 (1910). 
(125) LARSSON, 
Dissertation, Lund (1924). 
(126) LEWIS, 
Proc. Am. Acad. Sc. 43,259 (1907). Z. physili. Chem. 61,129 (1907). 
(127) LEWIS 
A. RANDALL, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 43, 
1140 (1921). 
(128) LEWIS, 
A System of Phys. Chem. I, N. Y. Longmans, Green & Co. (1920), 
(129) LIVINGSTON 
A. BRAY, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
46, 2048 (1923). 
(130) LJUNGGREN, 
Dissertation, Lund (1925). 
(131) LOB, Z. Elektrochem. 3, 42 (1896). 
(132) LOWRY, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
76, 
211 (1899). 
(133) LOWRY, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
83, 1314 (1903). 
(134) LOWRY, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
127, 1371 (1925). 
(135) LOWRY 
A. MAGSON, 
J. Chem. Soc. 93, 107 (1908). 
(102) JONES, 
LaPWORTH A. LINGFORD, 
J. Chem. SOC. 103,252 (1913). 
p. 423. 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
333 
(136) LOWRY 
A. RICHARDS, J. Chem. S O C .  127, 1385 (1925). 
(137) MICHAELIS, 
Die Wasserstoffionenkonzentration, 12. 
Aufl. Berlin, Springer 
(138) MICHAELIS 
A. MIZUTANI, 
Z. physik. Chem. 116, 135 (1925). 
(139) MICHAELIS 
A. RONA, 
Biochem. Z. 49, 232 (1913). 
(140) MILNER, 
Phil. Mag. (6) 23, 551 (1912), (6) 26, 743 (1913). 
(141) MIZUTANI, 
Z. physik. Chem. 116, 350 (1925), 118, 318 (1925). 
(142) MIZUTANI, 
Z. physik. Chem. 118, 327 (1925). 
(143) MORAN 
A. LEWIS, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
121, 1613 (1922). 
(144) MORTIMER 
A. PEARCE, 
J. Phys. Chpm. 21, 275 (1917). 
(145) NERNST, 
Z. physik. Chem. 4, 129 (1889). 
(146) NERNST, 
Theoretische Chemie 7. Aufl. 
(147) KOYES, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
46, 1080 (1924). 
(148) ORTON 
A. JONES, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
96, 114 (1909). 
(149) OSTWALD, 
J. praltt. Chem. (2) 23, 209 (1881), 28, 449 (1883), 29, 385 (1884), 
30, 93 (1884), 31, 307 (1885). 
(150) PALMBR, 
Z. physik. Chem. 22, 492 (1897). 
(151) PohfA, bledd. Xobelinst. 2, S r .  11 (1912). 
(152) RIMBERG, 
Syra, Bas och Salt, Upsala Universitets Arsskrift (1925). 
(153) REICHER, 
Ann. 228, 257 (1885). 
(154) RICE, 
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 46, 2808 (1923). 
(155) RIIBER, 
Ber. 66, 3132 (1922), 66, 2185 (1923), 67, 1599 (1924)- 
(156) RIVETT, 
Z. physik. Chem. 86, 113 (1913). 
(157) RgRDAhl, Studies on h t i v i t y ,  h'gbenh. (1925). 
(159) SCATCHARD, 
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 47, 684 (1925). 
(160) SCATCHARD, 
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 47, 2098 (1925). 
(161) SCHREIKER, 
Z. anorg. allgem. Chem. 116, 181 (1921). 
(162) SCHREIXER, 
Z. physik. Chem. 111, 
419 (1924). 
(163) SENTER, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
91, 460 (1907). 
(164) SNETHLAGE, 
Z. Elektrochem. 18, 539 (1912). 
(165) SNETHLAGE, 
Z. physik. Chem. 86, 252 (1913). 
(166) STIEGLITZ, 
Rep. Intern. Congr. St. Louis, 4, 276 (1904), Am. Chem. J. 
39,29 (1905), 39,166 (1905), 39,402 (1905), 39,437 (1905), 39, 586 (1905), 
39, 719 (1905), J. Am. Chem. Soc. 30, 1263 (1908), 31, 1319 (1909), 32, 
(1922), p. 16. 
Stuttgart, F. Enke (1913), p. 582. 
(158) SCBTCHBRD, J. Am. Chem. S O C .  43, 2387 (1921). 
221 (1910). 
(167) STIEGLITZ, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
36, 1774 (1913). 
(168) TAYLOR, 
Medd. Sobelinst. 2, Sr. 34 (1913). 
(169) TAYLOR, Medd. Nobelinst. 2, Nr. 35 (1913), Nr. 37 (1913). 
(170) TAYLOR, 
Z. Elektrochem. 20,201 (1914). 
(171) TAYLOR, Medd. Nobelinst. 3, Nr. 1 (1915). 
(172) TAYLOR 
A. CLOSE, 
J. Phys. Chem. 24, 1085 (1925). 
(173) TAYLOR, 
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 37, 551 (1915). 
(175) TUBANDT, 
Ann. 339, 41 (1005), 364, 259 (1907), 377, 284 (1910). 
(176) URECH, 
Ber. 13, 1603 (1880), 15,2130 (1882), 16, 762 (1883), 20, 1836 (1887). 
(177) WALDEN, 
Z. physik. Chem. 54, 228 (1906), 66, 707 (1906), 94, 263 (1920). 
(178) WARDER, 
Ber. 14, 1361 (1881). 
(174) THIELE 
U. LACHMANN, dnn. 288, 267 (1895). 
334 
J. N. BROXSTED 
(179) WEGSCHEIDER, 
Ber. 39, 1054 (1906). 
(180) WILHELMY, 
Pogg. Ann. 81, 413, 499 (1850). 
(181) WOKER, 
D’ie Xatalyse (Die chemische Analyse XI-XII) 
Stuttgart, F. 
Enke (1910). 
APPENDIX (19264927) 
TO CHAPTER I11 
During the last two years Euler and Ulander (10, 11, 12, 13) have 
continued their catalytic studies from the standpoint o
f
 the ionization 
theory of catalysis. The opinion that the theory is supported by the 
catalytic phenomena observed in mutarotation seems also to be main- 
tained in these recent papers, but a theoretical proof is still lacking. 
In order to explain the phenomena in the catalysis o
f
 mutarotation 
by acid and basic molecules other than hydrogen and hydroxyl ions 
Olander (21)) 
however, seems prepared to admit that a compound formed 
by the substrate and the catalysts in question (e.g., an acetate ion or 
a pyridine molecule) may well be taken as the reactive molecule char- 
acteristic of the theory. He is obviously unaware o
f
 the fact that when 
abandoning the idea of simple substrate ions as the reactive molecules 
in catalysis and permitting any complex, formed by the substrate and 
a catalyst, to perform the functions which have hitherto been attached 
to the substrate ions he actually gives up the fundamental principles 
of the Huler theory and in substance subscribes to the extended theory 
advocated in the present review. 
A. Skrabal(22) 
has subjected the theory o
f
 Euler to an elaborate crit- 
icism in an article in which he also gives a review o
f
 his own work 
on hydrolytic reactions from the standpoint of structural chemistry. 
Strangely enough he seems to believe in the possibility of distinguishing 
between the two different mechanisms o
f
 catalysis by extending experi- 
ments to such concentrations o
f
 the catalyzing hydrogen and hydroxyl 
ions that a considerable part o
f
 the substrate is transforned into an ion. 
It is not clear, however, how this conclusion has been arrived at. If it 
were true, the quite recent paper by Euler and Olander (13) dealing 
with the hydrolysis of acetamide by strong acids would have brought 
good evidence in favor o
f
 the ionization theory, as actually believed by 
these authors. However, i t  should be emphasized once more that the 
above disproof of the possibility of discriminating between the two pic- 
tures is general and conclusive, so it cannot be avoided by any special 
construction as to the nature and extent o
f
 the reaction considered. 
ACID AXD BASIC CATALYSIS 
335 
TO CHAPTER IV 
The question of primary kinetic salt effect has been dealt with by 
F. G. Soper (23), who derived a velocity expression for ionic reactions 
similar to Expression (4, 
IV). His formula deviates from (4), however, 
in that the exponent is two-thirds of the exponent in this equation. This 
divergence is due to a confusion of total and differential free energy 
(3, 5, 15). Furthermore it appears from another article by the same 
author (24) that the thermodynamic ideas underlying the derivation 
of the proposed formula are absolutely unsound, particularly as regards 
the free energy of the solvent and the part played by it in the charging 
processes of the Debye-Huckel theory. 
Attempts to sustain different forms of the activity rate theory for 
the case of concentrated salt solutions have been published recently by 
Akerlof (1) 
and by Soper and Pryde (25). While Akerlof from measure- 
ments of the rate o
f
 decomposition of diacetone alcohol in alkaline 
solution concludes that the velocity is proportional to the activity of 
the hydroxyl and the alkali metal ion, Soper and Pryde, studying the 
rearrangement of chloroacetanilide catalyzed by hydrochloric acid- 
that is by H+ and Cl--find 
the speed proportional to the activity of 
all three molecules reacting. From the standpoint of the general 
activity rate theory the two papers are incompatible. The last men- 
tioned authors in arguing against Equation (2, IV) as applicable to 
their reaction in concentration up to 1.5 N HC1 give no consideration 
to the fact that this equation is derived only for the domain o
f
 much 
more dilute salt solutions. 
L. E. Bowe (4) 
has studied cane sugar inversion and ester hydrolysis 
by hydrochloric acid in the presence of concentrated alkali halides 
and has also determined electrometrically the hydrogen ion activity 
(called by him the apparent H+) in the same solution. While for the 
cane sugar inversion a certain parallelism between speed and hydrogen 
ion activity was demonstrated, the ester hydrolysis was found to be 
much less affected by addition of the neutral salt. As was to be ex- 
pected no general kinetic conclusion could, therefore, be arrived at on 
the basis of these experiments. Theoretically the work is characterized 
by the serious mistake of confusing activity and osmotic pressure and 
by making use of the concept of solution pressure, which, except for 
solutions following the gas laws, has no definite significance. In this 
respect he seems to be a follower of W. Rancroft (2) who evidently 
has not yet familiarized himself with the modern conceptions in the 
field of solutions. 
J. N. BRONSTED 
TO CHAPTER V 
M. Kilpatrick (18) has studied catalysis in buffer solutions and shown 
the presence of a secondary kinetic salt effect. Otherwise the im- 
portance of the theory of primary and secondary salt effect does not 
appear to be recognized as yet, even in very recent work on catalysis. 
Thus Dawson and Carter (8) still believe in the possibility of calculat- 
ing hydrogen ion concentrations by the classical mass action expression 
and the simple Nernst formula in salt solutions the concentration of 
which varies from 0 to 1 normal. It will appear from the above 
theory of salt effect that the error involved in this way of calculation 
may easily amount to 100 per cent or more. Lowry and Smith (20) 
in their paper on mutarotation o
f
 glucose attribute high importance 
to Dawson’s work on account of its “repudiation” o
f
 the theory o
f
 
secondary salt effect as first demonstrated in Arrhenius’ experiments 
quoted above. They fail to realise, however, that the effect of sodium 
chloride in accelerating the inversion of cane sugar by a weak acid is 
entirely different in nature from the accelerating effect of sodium 
acetate in the mutarotation of glucose. In the interpretation of 
catalytic phenomena in salt solutions there is no escape from the 
obligatory condition o
f
 considering three entirely different effects: 
1, primary salt effect, 2, secondary salt effect, 3, direct catalytic effect 
of the ions in conformity with the extended theory of acid and basic 
catalysis presented in chapter VI11 of the present review. Owing to 
the magnitude o
f
 the last mentioned influence in the acetone-iodine 
reaction the conclusions of Dawson and Carter for this reaction are 
qualitatively correct in spite of their neglecting the effects mentioned 
under 1 and 2. On the other hand in the investigation by Dawson 
and Lowson (9) on ester hydrolysis the same omission becomes fatal. 
TO CHAPTER V I  
The general question of the definition o
f
 an acid has been dealt with 
by A. F. Germann (14) and A. Hantzsch (17). The ideas o
f
 the first 
of these authors, although of a subversive tendency, are extremely 
vague and more likely to confuse than to clarify the conception. 
Hantzsch describes an acid as a compound of hydrogen with a negative 
group. Beside the uncertainty implied by using the undefined idea 
of a “negative” group the description of Hantzsch is not actually a 
definition, but rather an attempt to point out which characteristics 
are required to make a substance an acid. The inadequacy o
f
 the acid 
ACID AND BASIC CATALYSIS 
337 
“dissociation” as a general measure o
f
 acidity is obviously what makes 
Hantzsch fall back on a more or less obsolete standpoint, as expressed 
by his considering “salt formation” as a property of fundamental sig- 
nificance for the concept of acidity. This idea disagrees entirely with 
our point of view. However, the inadequacy of measuring acidity in 
different solvents by means of dissociation has also been emphasized 
above, and we may find after all-in 
spite of much divergency-that 
the ideas of Hantzsch are, in many ways, not incompatible with those 
of the present review. 
Conant and Hall (7, 16) have made an interesting investigation on 
acidity and basicity in acetic acid as a solvent and have shown how 
the possibility of titrating an acid or a base depends upon the acid 
and basic properties of the solvent. 
TO CHAPTER VI11 
The investigation on mutarotation referred to above has now been 
published (6). The results obtained are in full conformity with the 
extended theory of catalysis showing a marked catalytic effect of a 
number of acid and basic molecules. In a logarithmic plot of catalytic 
constant against strength constant for all the different electric types 
of catalysts including the solvent the results come out as a straight 
line with a slope of 0.4 and about 0.2 for bases and acids respectively. 
This relationship seems approximately fulfilled throughout a 
range of 
acid and basic strength of about 10l8, and it is possible therefore 
within this range to predict approximately the catalytic efficiency of 
any base or acid in the mutarotation merely from its strength. 
Lowry and Smith (20) have studied the glucose reaction from a 
similar point of view and have obtained values for acetic acid, acetate 
and ammonium ion which agree well with our results. The value for 
the catalytic constant of the hydrochloric acid molecule cannot be 
accepted, however, because the authors have based their calculations 
upon the classical view o
f
 dissociation o
f
 strong electrolytes. Some 
aspects developed by Lowry (19) in a subsequent paper on the mech- 
anism of catalysis are much in accord with the extended theory of 
catalysis presented above. 
The paper by Dawson and Carter (8) on the acetone-iodine reaction 
mentioned above, is a continuation of previous work on the basis of 
the dual theory by Dawson and his coworkers. The new work, how- 
ever, contains much more conclusive evidence in favor of the extended 
338 
J. N. BRONSTED 
theory of catalysis although, as mentioned, the omission of salt effect 
from their considerations makes quantitative calculation difficult. 
It should be mentioned finally that experiments now in progress in 
this Laboratory have brought further support to the ideas of the ex- 
tended theory of acid and basic catalysis. 
LITERATURE TO APPENDIX 
(1) ~ K E R L O F ,  J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
49, 2955 (1927). 
(2) BANCROFT, 
J. Phys. Chem. 30, 1194 (1926). 
(3) BJERRUM, 
Z. physik. Chem. 119, 145 (1926). 
(4) BOWE, 
J. Phys. Chem. 31, 291 (1927). 
(5) BRONSTED, 
Trans. Faraday SOC. 
23, 416 (1927). 
(6) BRONSTED 
. ~ X D  
GUGGENHEIM, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
49, 2554 (1927). 
(7) CONANT 
AND HALL, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
49, 3062 (1927). 
(8) DAWSON 
AND CARTER, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
2282 (1926). 
(9) DAWSON 
AND LOWSON, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
2444 (1927). 
(10) EULER 
AND  LANDER, Z. anorg. allgem. Chem. 162, 113 (1926). 
(11) EULER 
AND  LANDER, Z. anorg. allgem. Chem. 166, 143 (1926). 
(13) EULER 
AND  LANDER, Z. physik. Chem. 131, 107 (1927). 
(14) GERXANN, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
47, 2461 (1925). 
(15) G~NTELBERG, 
Z. physik. Chem. 123, 199 (1926). 
(16) HALL 
AND CONANT, 
J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
49, 3047 (1927). 
(17) HANTZSCH, 
Ber. 60, 1933 (1927). 
(18) &LPATRICB, J. Am. Chem. soc. 48, 2091 (1926). 
(19) LOWRY, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
2554 (1927). 
(20) LOWRY 
AND SMITH, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
2539 (1927). 
(21)  LANDER, Z. physik. Chem. 129, 1 (1927). 
(22) SKRABAL, 
Z. Elektrochem. 33, 322 (1927). 
(23) SOPER, 
J. Phys. Chem. 31, 1790 (1927). 
(24) SOPER, 
J. Phys. Chem. 32, 67 (1928). 
(25) SOPER 
AND PRYDE, 
J. Chem. SOC. 
2761 (1927). 
(12) EULER 
AND 6L.4NDER, z. Elektrochem. 33, 527 (1927). 
