nature materials | VOL 9 | MARCH 2010 | www.nature.com/naturematerials 
185
news & views
increasing length and time scales7,8, leading 
to the so-called critical slowing down of the 
magnetic response.
From the model, it emerges that 
ferromagnets can be divided into type I and 
type II for high and low values of TC/μat, 
respectively. When a laser pulse hits the 
sample of a type I material it creates an 
excitation, increasing the temperature of 
the electron system. Strong spin scattering 
ensures fast equilibration of the spin and 
electron system. This behaviour is found for 
Ni, Fe and Co where the demagnetization 
follows the electron temperature.
In type II materials, with a low ratio of 
TC/μat, — and therefore weaker magnetic 
coupling — after the laser pulse hits the 
sample, a very fast demagnetization in the 
first picosecond is followed by a slower 
demagnetization (Fig. 1). This two-step 
process is a consequence of the different 
temperature of the electron system in 
the first picosecond and thereafter. It is 
found for the cases of Gd and FeTb that 
the width of the first step is in the order of 
picoseconds. The two-step demagnetization 
occurs regardless of the precise value of 
asf, although a smaller value makes it more 
apparent. An interesting observation is that 
by increasing the laser fluence or increasing 
the ambient temperature, in an intermediate 
range even type I materials show a double-
step behaviour and can be converted to 
type II materials.
As well as explaining this different 
demagnetization dynamics, Koopmans 
and coauthors tried to understand the 
origin of the elementary femtosecond 
spin-scattering mechanism, following a 
previous proposal by some of the same 
authors9. As the electron moves through 
the positively charged atom cores, its spin 
experiences the action of a magnetic field in 
its coordinate frame along its orbit, known 
as the spin–orbit interaction. One of the 
consequences of spin–orbit coupling in the 
solid-state material is that in some points 
of the Fermi surface the spin is not well 
defined and consists of a mixture of the 
dominant spin direction and a small part of 
the opposite one10. If an electron is scattered 
into such points by a phonon for example, 
there is a probability that the spin flips 
(Fig. 2a). This process is called Elliott–Yafet 
scattering11. Assuming this mechanism, 
Koopmans and coauthors estimated the 
values of asf for Ni and Co by ab initio 
calculations, and found that these values 
agreed very well with those used to describe 
the demagnetization curves.
The progress towards a quantitative 
understanding of demagnetization will make 
femtosecond magnetization dynamics a 
valuable tool for materials characterization 
without the need for electrical contacts. 
Müller et al.5 already showed that it is 
possible to relate the spin polarization 
P to the spin-flip scattering asf, which 
is suppressed in highly spin-polarized 
half-metals. The full description given by 
Koopmans and coauthors allows for the 
prediction of the quantitative response of a 
ferromagnetic material characterized by asf 
and TC/μat. Future studies will focus also on 
the exchange spin-flip processes (Fig. 2b) 
that may be dominant at the first stages 
after excitation. Furthermore, they may 
explain how the elementary excitation of a 
ferromagnet, that is a spin-flipped electron, 
surrounded by electrons of opposite spin 
direction (known as Stoner excitation) 
decays into spin-waves8. 
❐
Markus G. Münzenberg is at the 
I. Physikalisches Institut, Göttingen University, 
Friedrich‑Hund‑Platz 1, 37077 Göttingen, Germany. 
 
e‑mail: mmuenze@gwdg.de
References
1. Stanciu, C. D. et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 047601 (2007).
2. Beaurepaire, E., Merle, J. C., Daunois, A. & Bigot, J. Y. 
Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 4250–4254 (1996).
3. Melnikov, A. et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 107202 (2008).
4. Kim, J. W., Lee, K.-D., Jeong, J.-W. & Shin, S.-C. Appl. Phys. Lett. 
94, 192506 (2009).
5. Müller, G. M. et al. Nature Mater. 8, 56–61 (2009).
6. Koopmans, B. et al. Nature Mater. 9, 259–265 (2010).
7. Atxitia, U., Chubykalo-Fesenko, O., Chantrell, R. W., Nowak, U. 
& Rebei, A. Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 057203 (2009).
8. Djordjevic, M. & Münzenberg, M. Phys. Rev. B 
75, 012404 (2007).
9. Koopmans, B. et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 267207 (2009).
10. Walowski, J. et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 237401 (2008).
11. Elliott, R. J. Phys. Rev. 96, 266–279 (1954).
Elliott–Yafet scattering 
Exchange scattering 
a
b
~ESO/Ex
~EEx
+qph
Figure 2 | Insight into elementary mechanisms. a, Schematic representation of the electron–phonon-
mediated spin flip, which is an important ingredient of the model developed by Koopmans et al.6 
(Elliott–Yafet scattering). The intermediate state is an intermixed state of spin-up and spin-down character, 
arising from the spin–orbit interaction ESO. The momentum of the photon is represented by qph. b, An 
exchange-interaction-mediated spin-flip process is depicted, which keeps the total magnetization constant.
oXiDE SURFacES
Surface science goes inorganic
A plethora of chemical tools is necessary for probing the surface reconstruction of a complex metal oxide.
Ulrike Diebold
W
hen a material is cut in half 
the atoms at the newly created 
surface almost invariably end 
up in high-energy configurations. The 
atoms rearrange, and often the symmetry 
of the resulting structure is different 
from that of the bulk. The new surface 
structure is called a reconstruction. For 
a complex material, such as a ternary 
oxide, surface reconstructions can be 
very intricate. For example, consider the 
SrTiO3(110) surface (Fig. 1), which, after 
reconstruction, has a structure, symmetry, 
composition and even cation coordination 
number that is distinctly different (Fig. 2). 
The details of this reconstruction have 
now been resolved by James Enterkin 
and colleagues, who, writing in this 
© 20
 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved
10
186 
nature materials | VOL 9 | MARCH 2010 | www.nature.com/naturematerials
news & views
issue of Nature Materials1 describe an 
approach that combines the concepts and 
techniques of the disparate, but closely 
related fields of inorganic chemistry and 
surface science.
Knowing all the structural details of 
a reconstructed surface is important, as 
they affect a material’s overall properties. 
Consequently, solving reconstructions has 
long been a key task of surface scientists, 
and a whole arsenal of techniques has been 
developed to this end. Scanning tunneling 
microscopy (STM) is particularly appealing 
as it allows one to directly ‘see’ surface 
structures with atomic-scale detail. On 
the other hand it is not terribly accurate 
in determining the positions of the atomic 
nuclei (it images the electronic states of 
the atoms, so the observed corrugation 
is not necessarily the physical one2). 
Nevertheless, STM can give an idea of how 
a structure might look, and computational 
techniques, particularly density functional 
theory (DFT), can then be used to decide 
whether this structure is stable and if it has 
a low energy. If a reconstruction is very 
complicated however, and if the surface 
has a different composition from the 
bulk, it is often a formidable task to come 
up with a good enough approximation 
that can be refined with diffraction and 
computational techniques. As such, 
previous attempts using STM and DFT to 
solve the reconstructed SrTiO3(110) surface 
were unsuccessful.
SrTiO3 is a prototypical perovskite, 
that is, an ionic material with a cubic 
crystal structure that has the generic 
chemical formula ABO3. Many materials 
in this class have particularly intriguing 
physical properties. SrTiO3 itself is a 
preferred substrate for epitaxial growth of 
other perovskites; is a high-temperature 
catalyst; can be used to split water with 
sunlight; and its surfaces play a part in 
a variety of other applications. More 
recently its interfaces have gained attention 
owing to the fact that the formation 
of a two-dimensional electron gas 
was observed3.
In their study of the SrTiO3(110) 
surface, Enterkin et al.1 used high-
resolution electron microscopy in 
transmission mode. Transmission electron 
diffraction is a well-established technique 
for solving bulk structures, although it 
is rather unconventional to use it for 
surfaces. The authors applied ‘direct 
methods’4 to estimate the phases of the 
scattered beams and to obtain plausible 
models from the diffraction patterns. 
They then refined the solution with 
DFT and checked the result with STM. 
The model they present is interesting 
and intriguing: the SrTiO3(110) surface 
forms a whole series of reconstructions 
with (n × 1) symmetry, where n denotes 
the number of bulk unit cells along the 
[001] direction, and 1 indicates that the 
symmetry along [11
–0] is the same as in 
the bulk. The reconstructed surface with 
3 × 1 symmetry is depicted in Fig. 2. In 
each reconstruction only TiO4 units are 
present at the surface and they are linked 
through their edges and corners. Whereas 
titanium has six oxygen neighbours in 
most known bulk structures, tetrahedrally 
coordinated titanium becomes more stable 
if the volume is increased by a few per cent 
in a DFT calculation1. It therefore makes 
sense that at the surface, where more 
space is available, titanium atoms are in 
a tetrahedral configuration, as has been 
surmized for other reconstructions5. To 
explain the reconstructions, the team used 
bond-valence sum analysis, which evaluates 
the oxidation states of atoms in various 
bonding configurations. This simple and 
intuitive, yet powerful concept is widely 
used to analyse and predict structures 
in inorganic chemistry6. Its successful 
description of the surface reconstruction 
of SrTiO3(110) shows that this approach 
could be relevant for similar phenomena in 
other materials.
A valuable way of viewing the work 
by Enterkin et al. is by making use of the 
Crystallographic Information Format 
(CIF) files contained in the Supplementary 
Information. This standard data format7,8, 
adopted by the International Union of 
Crystallography, contains the coordinates 
of all the structures described in the paper 
and can be imported into many software 
packages. One can download the CIF files 
from the Nature Materials webpage and 
display a structure according to one’s fancy 
(in the same way that this author did to 
produce Figs 1 and 2). More importantly, 
however, providing universal access to 
[110]
[001]
Figure 1 | The SrTiO3(110) surface. In this figure the crystal has just been cut in half. The surface is not 
stable and, when heated, will form a series of reconstructions, that is, surfaces with a different symmetry 
from the bulk and an a priori unknown structure and composition. Titanium atoms: blue; oxygen atoms: 
red; strontium atoms: green.
[110]
[001]
Figure 2 | Which atoms are on the surface, and where do they sit? For the reconstructed 
SrTiO3(110)–(3 × 1) surface, combining the tools and concepts from inorganic chemistry and surface 
science has proved to be a powerful combination for solving this complex structure1. The surface 
titanium atoms are all tetrahedrally coordinated to oxygen atoms, whereas they have six oxygen 
neighbours in the bulk.
© 20
 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved
10
nature materials | VOL 9 | MARCH 2010 | www.nature.com/naturematerials 
187
news & views
the coordinates allows other researchers 
to test structural models with their own 
experimental and theoretical techniques. 
Depositing CIF files is common practice 
in crystallographic journals, and surface 
scientists are well advised to adopt 
this habit.
The results of Enterkin et al. should 
be of wide interest: they not only solve 
a complex surface reconstruction of an 
important metal oxide, the work also 
showcases both the techniques and 
concepts used routinely by inorganic 
chemists. With the interest shifting to 
more and more complex oxides, several 
strategies are needed to resolve their 
surface structure and other properties. 
❐
Ulrike Diebold is at the Institute of Applied 
Physics, Vienna University of Technology, 
1040 Vienna, Austria.  
e‑mail: diebold@iap.tuwien.ac.at
References
1. Enterkin, J. A. et al. Nature Mater. 9, 245–248 (2010).
2. Diebold, U., Anderson, J. F., Ng, K.-O. & Vanderbilt, D. 
Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 1322–1325 (1996).
3. Ohtomo, A. & Hwang, H. Y. Nature 427, 423–426 (2004).
4. Marks, L. D., Erdman, N. & Subramanian, A. 
J. Phys. Condens. Mater. 13, 10677–10687 (2001).
5. Onishi, H. & Iwasawa, Y. Surf. Sci. 313, L783–L789 (1994).
6. Brown, I. D. The Chemical Bond in Inorganic Chemistry: 
The Bond Valence Model (Oxford Univ. Press, 2002).
7. Hall, S. R., Allen, F. H. & Brown, I. D. Acta Crystallogr. A 
47, 655–685 (1991).
8. Brown, I. D. & McMahon, B. Acta Crystallogr. B 
58, 317–324 (2002).
toPoloGical iNSUlatoRS
oscillations in the ribbons
The observation of Aharonov–Bohm oscillations in nanoribbons of Bi2Se3 opens the way for electronic transport 
experiments in nanoscale three-dimensional topological insulators.
thomas ihn
t
opological insulators1 have risen 
to the attention of the scientific 
community only in the past few years. 
They are different from both insulators and 
metals because, whereas the bulk exhibits a 
finite electronic bandgap, and is therefore 
insulating, the surface states are gapless 
and metallic. Two- and three-dimensional 
variants of this class of materials have been 
studied experimentally and theoretically. 
The gapless metallic states at the 
surfaces are predicted to lead to unusual 
transport properties. However, transport 
experiments have so far been hampered 
by insufficient control over the bulk. In 
particular, unintentional and uncontrolled 
doping leads to residual conductance that 
masks that of the surfaces. As reported 
now in Nature Materials, Hailin Peng, 
Keji Lai and co-workers have succeeded in 
accessing the surface conductance of the 
topological insulator Bi2Se3 by fabricating 
nanoribbons, thus increasing the surface-
to-volume ratio2. This approach allowed 
the observation of Aharonov–Bohm 
oscillations, which represents the first 
demonstration of quantum interference in 
the transport properties of this new class 
of materials.
The Aharonov–Bohm effect3 is related 
to the interference of two coherent electron 
beams. It has been known4 at least since 
the 1940s that a magnetic flux enclosed by 
the two interfering partial waves (Fig. 1a) 
changes their relative phase and can 
thereby turn constructive interference into 
destructive, and vice versa. According to 
the theoretical prediction, the interference 
pattern is periodic in integer units of the 
magnetic flux quantum h/e, where h is 
Planck’s constant and e is the elementary 
charge. A higher-order variant of the effect 
can occur if a single path takes one full turn 
around the flux tube (see one of the paths 
in Fig. 1b). A pair of paths differing only 
in the direction in which it is taken (that 
is, clockwise or anticlockwise, see Fig. 1b) 
is related by time reversal, because the 
velocities would be inverted if the time ran 
backwards. Interference of pairs of time-
reversed paths is periodic in units of half 
the magnetic flux quantum h/2e.
In the 1980s the Aharonov–Bohm 
effect became well known in the field of 
mesoscopic electron transport, in which 
conductance is regarded to be proportional 
to electron transmission5,6. Sharvin and 
Sharvin7 measured the conductance of 
a long and thin magnesium cylinder 
evaporated around a micrometre-thin 
quartz filament (Fig. 2a). With the magnetic 
field oriented along the axis of the cylinder 
they found periodic oscillations in the 
magnetoconductance with a period given 
by h/2e, normalized to the cross-sectional 
area of the cylinder. In the same year, 
oscillations with this period had been 
predicted theoretically8. Similar results 
were later obtained in carbon nanotubes 
(Fig. 2b)9. The reason why in these 
experiments the h/e-periodicity was not 
observed was explained by various studies 
on metals10 and semiconductors6, for 
example on ring-shaped planar geometries 
and arrays of rings. Briefly, pairs of paths 
contributing to the fundamental h/e 
period have a specific relative phase at zero 
magnetic field. If many such pairs with 
uncorrelated zero-field phases contribute to 
transport, the h/e oscillations average out. 
In contrast, the h/2e-periodic oscillations 
contain a significant contribution of 
time-reversed paths, which all have 
the same relative phase of zero at the 
interference point, and are therefore robust 
against averaging.
The experimental specimen of 
Hailin Peng, Keji Lai and co-workers2 
resembles that of the Sharvin and Sharvin 
experiment7, as shown schematically 
in Fig. 2c. In the topological insulator 
Electron
beam
h/e-periodic
h/2e-periodic
a
b
Magnetic
ﬂux
ϕ = BA
Magnetic
ﬂux
ϕ = BA
Figure 1 | Aharonov–Bohm oscillations. a, If the 
two interfering partial waves represented by the 
blue arrowed lines enclose the magnetic flux once, 
the intensity of the beam transmitted to the right 
will be modulated with period h/e. The magnetic 
flux (ϕ) may be seen as a homogeneous magnetic 
field B within the area A of the flux tube. b, If the 
two interfering partial waves are a pair related 
by time-reversal, each encircling the magnetic 
flux once, the reflected intensity will always be a 
maximum at zero flux, and it will be modulated 
with period h/2e.
© 20
 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reserved
10
