<quotes>
Kinetic studies show that addition of Sn to Pt enhances the selectivity for isobutylene formation at temperatures near 700 K.
Mssbauer spectroscopic studies show that Sn interacts with Pt to produce a Pt/Sn alloy.
Microcalorimetric investigations show that addition of Sn reduces the number of sites that strongly interact with hydrogen or carbon monoxide.
The elimination of stronger adsorption sites may be caused by preferential blocking of sites by tin or weakening of sites due to ligand effects.
However, strong adsorption sites are present on a Pt/Sn catalyst that exhibits high dehydrogenation selectivity.
Microcalorimetric studies of ethylene adsorption suggest that addition of Sn inhibits the formation of highly dehydrogenated surface species.
These results suggest that high dehydrogenation selectivity achieved by addition of Sn to Pt is caused by a decrease in the size of surface Pt ensembles.
element not found
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The addition of tin (Sn) to platinum (Pt) catalysts enhances the selectivity for isobutylene formation at around 700 K, according to kinetic studies. Mssbauer spectroscopy reveals that Sn combines with Pt to form a Pt/Sn alloy. Microcalorimetry indicates that adding Sn decreases the number of sites that strongly interact with hydrogen or carbon monoxide. This reduction might be due to Sn preferentially blocking sites or weakening them through ligand effects. Strong adsorption sites still exist on a Pt/Sn catalyst with high dehydrogenation selectivity. Microcalorimetric studies on ethylene adsorption suggest that Sn hinders the formation of highly dehydrogenated surface species. These findings imply that the high dehydrogenation selectivity obtained by adding Sn to Pt is caused by a decrease in the size of surface Pt ensembles.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在大约700 K时，向Pt催化剂中添加Sn增强了异丁烯形成的选择性，根据动力学研究。Mssbauer光谱显示Sn与Pt结合形成Pt/Sn合金。微热量测定表明添加Sn减少了强烈与氢或一氧化碳相互作用的位点数量。这种减少可能是因为Sn优先阻塞位点或通过配体效应削弱位点。具有高脱氢选择性的Pt/Sn催化剂上仍然存在强吸附位点。对乙烷吸附的微热量测定表明Sn抑制了高度脱氢表面物种的形成。这些发现表明，通过添加Sn到Pt中获得的高脱氢选择性是由表面Pt簇尺寸的降低引起的。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
