<quotes>
Kinetic studies show that addition of Sn to Pt enhances the selectivity for isobutylene formation at temperatures near 700 K.
Mssbauer spectroscopic studies show that Sn interacts with Pt to produce a Pt/Sn alloy.
Microcalorimetric investigations show that addition of Sn reduces the number of sites that strongly interact with hydrogen or carbon monoxide.
The elimination of stronger adsorption sites may be caused by preferential blocking of sites by tin or weakening of sites due to ligand effects.
However, strong adsorption sites are present on a Pt/Sn catalyst that exhibits high dehydrogenation selectivity.
Microcalorimetric studies of ethylene adsorption suggest that addition of Sn inhibits the formation of highly dehydrogenated surface species.
These results suggest that high dehydrogenation selectivity achieved by addition of Sn to Pt is caused by a decrease in the size of surface Pt ensembles.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The addition of tin to platinum enhances the selectivity for isobutylene formation at around 700 K, as observed in kinetic studies. Mssbauer spectroscopy indicates that tin interacts with platinum to form a Pt/Sn alloy. Microcalorimetry reveals that adding tin decreases the number of sites strongly interacting with hydrogen or carbon monoxide, possibly due to either preferential blocking by tin or ligand-induced weakening of the sites. However, strong adsorption sites remain on a Pt/Sn catalyst with high dehydrogenation selectivity. Microcalorimetric analysis of ethylene adsorption suggests that tin inhibits the formation of highly dehydrogenated surface species. This implies that the increased dehydrogenation selectivity achieved by adding tin to platinum is due to a reduction in the size of surface platinum ensembles.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
添加锡到铂增强了约700K时异丁烯形成的选择性，这是动力学研究的结果。Mssbauer光谱显示锡与铂结合形成Pt/Sn合金。微热容量研究表明，添加锡减少了强烈与氢或一氧化碳相互作用的位点的数量，这可能由于锡的优先阻塞或配体诱导的位点减弱所致。然而，在具有高脱氢选择性的Pt/Sn催化剂上仍然存在强吸附位点。对乙烯吸附的微热容量分析表明，锡抑制了高度脱氢表面物种的形成。这意味着通过在铂中添加锡实现的高脱氢选择性是由于表面铂簇尺寸的减少导致的。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
