I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


J CHEM. SOC'. FARADAY TRANS., 1994. Wj).
773--7XI
773 Reduction of Cerias with Different Textures by Hydrogen and their Reoxidation by Oxygen Vincent Perrichon,* Ahmidou Laachir, Gerard Bergeret, Roger Frety and Louise Tournayan lnstitut de Recherches sur la Catalyse,
CNRS,
2 avenue Einstein,69626 Villeurbanne Cedex, France 0 1
ivier Tou ret Rhdne Poulenc, Centre de Recherches d'Aubervilliers,52 rue de la Haie Coq,93308 Aubervilliers, France Successive reduction steps of CeO, particles by hydrogen between 300 and 1070 K have been followed by temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) and in situ magnetic measurements on several samples with different BET surface areas. The nature of the phases present in cerias reduced between 670 and 1270 K was determined by X-ray analysis. Finally, reoxidation by oxygen or air was studied at room temperature for all the reduced samples.Magnetic and TPR results show a direct relationship between the degree of reduction and the BET surface area. Indeed, for most of the samples, the degree of reduction at 620-670 K determined by magnetism corre- sponded to the creation of one layer of Ce3+ ions at the surface of the ceria. A similar relationship between the BET surface area and the extent of reduction was established using the area of the low-temperature TPR com- posite peak, the maximum of which was found to be constant at 810 K.When the reduction progresses further into the bulk, two main phases were evidenced: first, an expanded cubic CeO,-,phase derived from the initial ceria by a dilatation of the whole structure and, for deeply reduced samples, the hexagonal C e ,
O
,
phase. A new intermediate phase, cubic Ce,O,,was also observed on samples reduced at 1070-1 170 K.
Complete reoxidation by oxygen occurs at room temperature, for all reduction percentages below ca. 60/,,,i.e. as long as the reduced phase remained in the cubic form. When the hexagonal Ce,O,phase has been formed, the reoxidation cannot be completed at 294 K.
The structure of ceria is face-centred cubic (fluorite type). It can be described as a pile of oxygen ions. linked together by the edges, with the cerium atom at the centre o f the oxygen cube in octahedral coordination. ' q 2 Some oxygen entities i n this structure are very mobile and can easily be removed tc give non-stoichiometric compositions, stable in a reducing atmosphere with the general formula CeOz - x ,where 0 < x d
0.5.3
However, in the presence of oxygen. these com- pounds are easily reoxidized to the stable CeO, . This oxygen lability and the possibility of large deviations from stoichiorn- etry explain the prevalent use of ceria in catalysts for auto- motive post-combustion. In such systems, cerium oxide behaves as an oxygen partial pressure reglator.'.For this reason, several studies have appeared which have focussed on elucidating the conditions of these redox processes in order to obtain a better understanding of their mechanisms.6 '_' From these studies, it appears that the texture of the initial cerium oxide has a great influence on the interaction between
H,
and CeO,. However, any quantitative determination of z in the Ce02-, reduced phase cannot be accurate because most of the results are obtained from TPR studies which do not take into account the reduction of impurities (nitrates. carbonates) or hydrogen fixation, all quantities which can be important in dispersed cerias. l6 The control of the reduction extent by oxygen reoxidation is also rarely given. Moreover. although the Ce-0 phase diagram is well established for samples prepared at high temperatre,there is a lack ol' phase determination for the solids obtained by reduction of dispersed cerias, which are those used in catalysis. All these data are necessary to establish a macroscopic scheme of the oxygen transfer in CeO, during reduction-oxidation pro- cesses.
In a recent paper," we have studied, by several comple- mentary techniques and particularly by in situ magnetic SUS- ceptibility measurements, the hydrogen reduction processes of two ceria samples having surface areas of, respectively, 5 and I15 m' g-' . The reduction began at 470 K, irrespective of the initial surface. With the low-surface-area ceria, a small reduction plateau at 620 K attributed to the reduction of the ceri$i surface was observed as well as an intermediate state at a higher temperature of reduction (900 K), having the formal composition CeO, 8 3 ,  r.e. close to that of Ce,O, ,.In the case of the 11 5 m2 g-' sample. the observation of a plateau corre- sponding to the reduction of the surface depended on the operating conditions, but again a stabilized composition close to CeO, g4 could be obtained at 670 K. The reoxidation by tixygen of the reduced oxides was almost complete at room temperature.Ir the present work, we have generalized these studies to othcr samples of intermediate surface area and to higher reduction extents, in order to see if the same reduction steps can be observed for various ceria types and if the reversibility of the redox process can be effective whatever the solid and redLCtion percentage. In parallel with the quantitative deter- mindion of the reduction percentage by TPR and magne- tism, the evolution of the ceria structure was followed by X-rz y diffraction on samples sealed under hydrogen after redLCtion. The results are presented and discussed in terms of the topology of the reduction and reoxidation processes. together with the structure of the reduced phase.Experimental Materials Twc different HSA cerias were obtained from RhBne-Poulenc I . 0 . M .  with references C1 and C2. They differed by the exis- tence of microporosity in the former (equivalent to almost ( of the BET surface area), whereas micropores were absent for the latter. Their purity is close to 99.5'%, with lanthanum as the main impurity. 5o(J, Downloaded by University of Arizona on 26 December 2012 Published on 01 January 1994 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/FT9949000773 View Article Online / Journal Homepage / Table of Contents for this issue 774
J. CHEM. SOC. FARADAY TRANS., 1994, VOL. 90
By treatment of the initial cerias in various conditions, five new samples were prepared. All the samples studied are pre- sented in Table 1, which also gives the BET surface area and the equivalent microporous surface calculated according to the 't method'.'' Among the samples, C1-400 and C1-850 have already been characterized by means of several tech- niques.In order to compare the samples under the same condi- tions, they were standardized with a pretreatment i n situ under oxygen flow (4 1 h-') at 673 K for 1 h (heating rate,5 K min-I). After that, they were evacuated or placed in an inert gas flow for 1 h at 673 K before cooling to room temperature.Temperature-programmed Reduction (TPR) The hydrogen consumption (1% H, in argon) was followed with a thermal conductivity detector in an apparatus described previously." The catalyst was in a U-shaped reactor. The flow rate was 1.1 1 h-' and the heating rate 8 K min-'.Magnetic Measurements The Faraday microbalance and procedure for calculation of the magnetic susceptibility have been described else- where."." The method allows determination of the para- magnetic Ce3+ ion content (note that Ce4+ in CeO, is diamagnetic).
The experimental conditions corresponded to those used previ0us1y.l The ceria sample (0.10-0.13 g) was first stan- dardized under oxygen at 673 K, and then evacuated down to 0.1-0.2 mPa at the same temperature. After cooling to 294 K, the sample was placed under a hydrogen flow (4 1 h-I) and heated (4 K min-') with incremental steps of 50 K. For each step, the sample was kept for 2 h at the temperature before cooling to 294 K, always in H,, in order to measure the susceptibility. The latter was found to be nearly the same if the sample was cooled under vacuum instead of hydro- gen." X-Ray Diffkaction (XRD) The X-ray diagrams were obtained using the Debye-Scherrer method with Mo-Ka radiation or Cu-Kcr in some cases. Since the reduced cerias are extremely sensitive to air reoxidation, a special procedure was followed which consisted of sealing the reduced sample in a quartz tube under hydrogen partial pres- sure. Then, in a glove box flushed with oxygen-free dry argon,the sample was transferred into a controlled-atmosphere cell equipped with a beryllium window enabling the X-ray dif- fraction pattern to be recorded.
Results Influence of the Initial BET Surface Area on the Reduction
P
r o c e s s
Study by TPR Three samples were examined for this study and compared with C1-400: C2-600, C2-800 and C1-850. After the stan- dardization treatment, TPR was performed up to around
1100 K.
The curves are shown on Fig. 1. Each curve presents a first composite peak beginning at about 500 K with a maximum close to 810 K. The shapes of this peak are not identical for the different samples. Shoulders and slope changes are visible as indicated by the arrows on Fig. 1. Fig. l(b) and (c), relative to the same precursor, present a similar initial profile,whereas for Fig. l(a), the hydrogen consumption is initially rather slow, and then increases quickly between 630 and 660 K. Another minor slope change is also observed at 760- 740 K for Fig. l(a) and (b). All these differences have to be connected with a specific chemistry of the oxide surface anions depending on the sample surface. An attempt has been made with FTIR spectroscopy to correlate them with differ- ent types of surface hydroxy groups.20 Nevertheless, although the first peak results from several steps, it can be related to a global process corresponding to the consumption of the surface oxygen species as evidenced befre.'' Then, after this q s t  peak, when the temperature is increased above 900 K, the beginning of a new peak is observed on the curves and must be due to the bulk reduction.For C1-400 [Fig. l(a)] the nature and origin of the nega- tive peak at 965 K were already characteried.'* This peak arises from the reduction of bulk carbonates" which are present in the solid and are desorbed under vacuum at around 810 K. It can also be due to the desorption of hydro- gen fixed by the solid during the TPR.16 For C2-600 [Fig. l(b)], the negative peak is not clearly observed or, more prob- ably, it occurs at 880 K with a lower intensity, giving rise to the small positive peak centred at 965 K. It must be remarked that this sample was prereduced at 873 K before being reoxidized at room temperature. Such a sample exhibited an almost complete absence of carbonate species, as shown by FTIR spectroscopy.21 This absence of carbonates must therefore explain the absence of the negative peak at
890 K.
Assuming that the first peak is due only to the reduction of the various surface oxygen species, it is interesting to note that no major shift is observed at the maximum temperature of this peak. For every sample, the maximum is observed at Table 1 Origin and texture of the different CeO, samples


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 