I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117134 Bimetallic palladium catalysts: influence of the co-metal on the catalyst performance Bernard Coq a,, Franois Figueras b a Laboratoire de Matriaux Catalytiques et Catalyse en Chimie Organique, UMR 5618 ENSCM-CNRS,8, Rue de lEcole Normale, 34296 Montpellier, France b Institut de Recherche sur la Catalyse, 2 Avenue Albert Einstein, 69626 Villeurbanne, France Abstract An overview about the effect of co-metal on the performance of Pd in bimetallic catalysts is presented. In the first part, the promotion of monometallic catalysts by addition of a second metal is described from a general point of view in terms of: (i) electronic effects; (ii) geometric effects; (iii) the occurrence of mixed sites; and (iv) the disappearance of the -PdH phase.
The second part presents the main methods to prepare bimetallic catalysts through the unselective and selective depositions of the co-metal precursor and the use of heterobinuclear complexes. The influence of preparation methods on the chemical state and the spatial distribution of both components are highlighted. In the last part, a short overview is given about the influence of co-metal addition on some important reactions in which Pd is the reference active phase: (i) selective hydrogenation of highly unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbons; (ii) hydrogenation of aromatics or hydrodearomatisation; (iii) hydrogenation of nitrogen-containing compounds; (iv) reactions involving CO; and (v) hydrodechlorination.  2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Hydrogenation; Palladium; Bimetallics; Alloying; Hydrogenation of alkynes; Hydrogenation of aromatics; Thioresistance; CCl hydrogenolysis; Hydrogenation of CO; Hydrogenation of N-containing compounds
1. Introduction
The first clear realization that chemical reaction be- tween two gaseous reactants can occur at a metal sur- face, without the latter being chemically unchanged,is due to Humphrey Davy in 1817 (see [1,2] for a brief historical survey). In experiments for the devel- opment of miners safety-lamp, Davy observed that a Pt wire remained hot without flame in the presence of coal-gas and air. Davy deduced that the coal-gas and air combined without flame when in contact with the hot Pt surface. Only Pt and Pd wires were effective.
Corresponding author. Tel.: +33-4-6714-4395;fax: +33-4-6714-4349.
E-mail address: coq@cit.enscm.fr (B. Coq).
This is probably the first report of a catalytic activity on a Pd surface. A second breakthrough by the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries was the extensive Sabatiers works on hydrogenation of several organic and inorganic substrates on a wide variety of powdered metal catalysts among them Pd. The benefit brought by alloying two active metals, or an inactive with an ac- tive one, was early recognized, and systematic studies were carried out between the first and the second world wars. From the first finding about stabilization of Pt gauzes in the NH3 oxidation by adding Pd, some of the best achievements in catalysis by alloying metals can be found in the refining industry with the very classical reforming Pt-based catalysts promoted by Ir, Re, Ge, Sn, . . . and selective hydrogenations in petrochem- istry with promotion of Pd with Sn, Au, Cu, Pb, . . . . 1381-1169/01/$  see front matter  2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
PII: S1381-1169(01)00148-0
118
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117134
At the beginning, the behavior of alloys catalysts was interpreted by both the electronic theory of catal- ysis and the Rigid Band Theory (RBT) of alloys. The former stated that molecules are activated during the adsorption process by either releasing or accepting one electron, whilst the latter postulated that the num- ber of d-band holes could be decreased by alloying a metal containing more valence electrons, from an electron transfer. Actually, the interpretation of the al- loying effect has been found much more complicated later, though this initial concept remained still ever stimulating.
It is first necessary to precise what we are meaning when using the terminology of alloy. Taking the proposition of Ponec and Bond [1], we will adopt this term to describe . . . any metallic system containing two or more components, irrespective of their inti- macy of mixing or the precise manner in which their atoms are disposed . . . . On that account, alloys can be formed from a metal and a clearly non-metal, i.e.
Pd and B or Si, or two metals forming a continuous series of solid solutions over the whole concentration range, i.e. PdAg. This definition of alloys catalysts being settled, the alloying effect, promotion of the catalytic properties of one metal by addition of a second component, enters in the general frame of the structure-activity relationships.
It was shown that a large number of reactions exists for which the rate per unit of catalyst area de- pends on the superficial structure of a catalyst with a given chemical composition. This general concept of structure-sensitivity was particularly fruitful in the field of catalysis by metals. Depending on whether the turnover frequency (TOF), or rate per unit sur- face area or per accessible metal atom, is affected or not by the metallic structure the reactions have been called facile or demanding [3], or later on by the terms structure-insensitive or structure-sensitive [4]. The first to recognize this concept was Taylor in 1925 [5] who said: . . . the amount of surface which is catalytically active is determined by the reaction catalyzed. There will be all extremes be- tween the case in which all the atoms in the surface are active and that in which relatively few are so active. . . .
Generally speaking, superficial metallic structure refers to the coordination number between the active metal atoms which can be modified [1]: (i) by exposing different crystallographic planes at the surface and making them imperfect by means of steps and kinks;(ii) by varying particle size in the critical range be- tween 1 and 5 nm; (iii) by alloying the active metal with a second component; or (iv) by induction of a strong metal-support interaction with some supports.
Each of these situations has been the subject of re- views, in particular the alloying effect in catalysis [6].
Albeit this separation seems somehow arbitrary, and could be criticized, there is more or less a general agreement to explain these structure-activity relation- ships with the help of geometric and electronic effects (vide infra).
In any case, understanding the alloying effect would require the best possible knowledge for the following points: (i) what is the chemical state of the two com- ponents? (ii) are the two elements intimately interact- ing in the same aggregates or not? (iii) does surface segregation of one component occur? (iv) are the two elements randomly distributed in the surface layer or not? The first and second points mainly address to the method used for preparing the catalysts and will be discussed in more details later (vide infra). The third question to be asked concerns the surface composition in bimetallic particles. The occurrence of segregation to the surface of one component of an alloy is now well established, as well as its influence on the cat- alytic properties (see [1]). Finally, on small particles (12 nm), surface atoms tend to represent the majority of the atoms of the particle and the surface enrichment looses meaning. Nevertheless, on these small aggre- gates the surface contains sites of different topologies:low index planes, kinks, edges, corners, etc. The dis- tribution of the different components of the bimetal- lic particles could be ordered, and one component would occupy sites of a given topology preferentially [710].
It will be the aim of this review to look at the effect of the presence of a second component in Pd-based heterogeneous catalysts at the light of the above considerations. Alterations of the catalytic properties of Pd will be discussed in the frame of electronic and geometric effects, with respect to the different methods by which the alloy catalysts could be prepared. Some examples will be chosen to highlight these behaviors. This review will be re- stricted to Pd-based catalysts operating in a reductive atmosphere.
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117134
119
2. Electronic and geometric effects in
catalysis by metals As mentioned above, the structure-activity relation- ships are often explained on the basis of electronic and/or geometric effects. However, geometric and electronic influences cannot often be separated as independent parameters. For instance, increasing the size of metallic particles results in an electron band- width increase and a decrease of binding energies of core electron, but the nature of the exposed planes and the topology of the surface sites change as well.
Nowadays, the debate between the electronic and ge- ometric factors is only seen of historical interest in catalysis.
Moreover, we have to take care of a simple view of a geometric basis for explaining structure-sensitivity.
There is the possibility, under high temperature con- ditions, or very reactive atmospheres, that surface mo- bility smoothes out geometric and structural features on small particles. This concept of flexible surface,mainly revealed by Somorjai [11], as well as the cor- relation between reactivity and restructuring ability appears extremely puzzling, though fruitful. This is particularly true with reactants induced segregation.
This phenomenon of surface layer reconstructing is not only restricted to high temperature treatment in re- active atmosphere but can also occur under mild con- ditions in reactions carried out in the liquid phase. By measurement of the catalysts potential [12], Bodnar et al. [13] have shown that metal promoters, deposited as Ge4+, Pb2+, Cu2+ and Sn2+ on the surface layer of Pd particles, can be found as bulk metal, adatoms or remain as ions after reduction in liquid phase. The pre- vailing phase depends on the reaction conditions and the substrate to be hydrogenated. As an example, Ge in Ge-promoted Pd/C will remain the same after the pre-reduction and hydrogenation of cinnamyl alcohol,mainly as Ge0, whilst it will transform into GeO2, and then be leached to the solution, upon hydrogenation of nitrobenzene.
2.1. Electronic effect in catalysis by alloys
To be short, the key point in this model lies in the interaction between the d-band orbitals of the surface sites with the molecular orbitals of reactants and prod- ucts. Historically, the premises of this concept were Fig. 1. Rate for C2H4 hydrogenation on some metal wires relative to Rh [15]. suggested by Sabatier [14], who said that the interme- diate compound formed by one reactant at the surface must be stable enough to be formed but not too stable since it must decompose to yield the products. This can be correlated with the heat of adsorption of reac- tants and products, governed by the electronic factors,which should be neither too strong nor too weak to give the optimum coverage for species competing at the surface, or for the products to desorb. The ammo- nia synthesis, competition between N2, H2 and NH3,and the selective hydrogenation of unsaturated hydro- carbons, competition between H2 and hydrocarbons,are good examples for that. This is illustrated for the hydrogenation of ethylene on metal wires (Fig. 1); the rate is maximum for Rh, for which the heat of ad- sorption of ethylene provides the optimum coverage in C2H4 and H2.
It was early believed that an electron was transferred in the chemisorption process from the reactant to the metal surface, or the reverse. This proposition allows to understand the popularity of the RBT of alloys in which the d-band holes of one metal are filled by the valence electrons of a second metal. The valence shell electronic configuration of Pd in atomic form is of 4d105s0 type; in metallic Pd, approx. 0.36 electrons of the d-shell are in the s-band. This leaves an equivalent number of holes in the d-band. The filling of the 4d shell on alloying can therefore arise either by a flow of charge from s-band of Pd or a charge transfer from a second component. Actually, it was recognized later that: (i) the chemisorption bond on metal is covalent for the main; and (ii) the extent of electron transfer from one component to the other upon alloying is very small, if so. Nevertheless, the degree of electronic interaction between valence electrons of the two 120
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117134
components in alloys depends on the enthalpy of for- mation Hf, it will be low if Hf is positive, but strong if Hf is negative (see [1] for more details).
In an extensive study about the electronic proper- ties of Pd alloyed with 20 elements as Mg, transitions metals, lanthanides and actinides, Fuggle et al. [16] concluded that (i) in alloys with electropositive ele- ments the Pd d-band is filled and moved away from the Fermi level with narrowing of the d-band width;(ii) as the electronegativity difference between the el- ements is decreased there is a greater overlap in the band energies of Pd and second metal; (iii) the filling of bands is largely due to changes in the hybridiza- tion of the Pd d-band, and the actual charge transfer of Pd d electrons is probably small. XPS studies of Pd80Ge20 glassy alloys also showed strong modifica- tions of the Pd d-band, which is filled in the alloys [17]. This was not due to charge transfer from Ge to Pd, but to intra-atomic charge transfer from 5s to 4d orbitals of Pd. The reverse was reported when Zn was vapor-deposited on a Pd surface [18]. The XPS experiments provided evidences that redistribution of charge occurred in Pd with shift from 4d to 5s orbitals,which strengthened the PdZn bimetallic bond. Ab initio SCF calculations on Pd3Zn10 clusters reached the same conclusions: small charge transfer between Pd and Zn but redistribution of charge from 4d to 5s Pd levels. From quantum chemical calculations on Pd1Cu12 and Pd4Cu6 clusters, Fernandez-Garcia et al.
[19] proposed a similar scheme for an intra-atomic charge redistribution from 4d to 5sp states at Pd sites.
Surface Pd atoms became slightly negatively charged.
This electronic modification of Pd would be in agree- ment with XANES experiments on PdCu/KL-zeolite catalysts [20]. These results disagree with the interpre- tation of IR-CO experiments on PdCu/Al2O3 [21], and XPS experiments on PdCu/Pumice [22], from which no electronic modification of Pd by Cu was claimed,but only a dilution of Pd surface. These few exam- ples emphasize the great variety of situations for elec- tronic modifications upon alloying Pd with a second component. The electronic interpretation of alloying effect was then forsaken at the benefit of geometric considerations, i.e. dilution of the active sites. Any- way, even if there are clear evidences that the extent of electron transfer is generally low upon alloying,the consequence of dilution of the active metal into smaller ensembles by a second component is the ap- pearance of discrete levels in the valence band and in many cases the rehybridization of the orbitals.
In any case, if one wishes to put in evidence elec- tronic effects in catalysis by alloys, it is necessary to consider reactions in which the geometric effects are of small importance, i.e. those known as occurring on a site of small size (vide infra). This is the case for the hydrogenation of alkenes, alkynes and alkadienes.
Electronic modifications upon alloying Pd was in- voked to interpret the better selectivity observed in the selective hydrogenation of alkadienes and alkynes to alkenes [23]. For instance, in the hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene and 1-butene on Pd-based catalysts, Sarkany et al. reported that the rate of n-butane forma- tion was suppressed to a greater extent than was the consumption of 1,3-butadiene when Pd was alloyed with Zn [24] or Co [25]. This was ascribed to a de- crease in the strength of butene and butadiene com- plexation. This behavior can be illustrated by Fig. 2.
As discussed above about the electronic factors in catalysis by metals, the maximum of catalytic activ- ity is expected for an optimum strength of adsorption,neither too strong nor too weak. This was exemplified in the case of ethene hydrogenation on Group VIII metals (Fig. 1). The same concept applies by choos- ing a catalyst and changing the reactant within an ho- mologue family (Fig. 2). In that case, alkyne are too strongly bonded to react fast enough. The challenge is to fine-tune the properties of the metal phase to de- crease the strength of adsorption of the alkyne, so that it reacts faster. In this frame, the alkene will be less re- active and a higher selectivity to this target compound will be achieved more easily according to the consecu- tive formal reaction scheme: alkyne (or alkadiene) alkene alkane.
2.2. Geometric effect
The first element of this model lies in the pioneer- ing works from Kobozev [27], Poltorak and Boronin [28]. They showed that some reactions need more than one surface atom to proceed. Moreover, a spe- cific arrangement between these atoms will be even re- quired to generate the active site [29]. This geometric model was more recently revisited by several authors [3032], naming it as ensemble-size model. The ba- sic idea is that the rate is function of the probability to find an ensemble of n free and neighbor atoms on
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117134
121 Fig. 2. Relative rate of alkene, alkadiene and alkyne hydrogenations as a function of the heat of adsorption on Pd catalysts [26]. which the adsorption of the reactant(s), and the further transformations, can occur. In the illustration of Fig. 3,the hydrogenolysis of ethane needs several neighbor metal atoms to accommodate the multi-bonded HCC reactive intermediate and the five Habstracted, 12 on Ni catalysts according to Dalmon and Martin [32];in contrast the reactive adsorption of ethylene could proceed on a single atom.
Since the simple and attractive hypothesis of RBT in alloys has failed to stand the test of time, the ensemble-size model became very helpful to inter- pret the behavior of alloys. When applied to alloys between an active component A and an inactive one B, the sensemble-size model in its simplest form re- flects the dilution in ensembles of smaller size of the active surface A by B; these smaller ensembles of A being less prone to activate the reactant(s). The im- mediate consequence of this phenomenon is a sharp decrease of the turn over frequency (TOF). The TOF Fig. 3. Schematic representation of the ensemble size required for the hydrogenolysis of C2H6 and the hydrogenation of C2H4. is the number of molecules transformed per unit time and per surface metal atom A; the number of surface metal atom being titrated by hydrogen chemisorption for instance. Concurrently to the TOF decrease, no modification of the kinetic parameters, activation en- ergy, enthalpies of adsorption and entropy changes,should occur. Obviously, the fall of TOF should be all the more so that preferential segregation to the surface of the inactive component B occurs. In the classical treatment of diluting an infinite surface A by B, the probability to find an ensemble of neighboring n A atoms is given by [1,33,34]: P = (1 θB)n θB : surface coverage by B (1) This ideal relationship is true when A and B are randomly distributed on an infinite surface. The situa- tion becomes more complicated when the distribution of A and B is not random. Upon alloying A and B if Hf is positive the components tend to form clusters,at variance when Hf is negative ordering prevails.
Random distribution of A and B is favored when Hf is slightly negative.
Another limitation to the ideality represented by Eq. (1) is the finite size of metal particles in real cat- alysts [34]. Moreover, the surface of small metal par- ticles are composed of sites with different topologies:low index planes, kinks, edges, corners, etc. The dis- tribution of the different components of the bimetallic particles could be ordered, and one component would occupy sites of a given topology preferentially [10,35].
This was demonstrated by Monte-Carlo calculations for Pt alloyed with Cu, Ag or Au [36], and by the 122
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117134
Density Functional Theory calculations for Rh alloyed with Ge, Sn or Pb [10]. Such a behavior was suggested to occur also in PdRh/Al2O3 where Pd would oc- cupy preferentially the low coordination sites in PdRh bimetallic particles [37].
A very efficient approach to probe the dilution of A by B is the IR-monitored chemisorption of CO [1]. This is a particular powerful tool in the case of Pd-based catalysts. The IR spectrum of CO adsorbed on reduced Pd surface exhibits two intense bands in the range 21002050 and 20001800 cm1. The former is ascribed to various forms of linearly adsorbed CO on Pd atoms, and the latter to CO bridging two or more adjacent Pd atoms. The dilution of Pd by an inactive component can be put in evidence by (i) a shift of υCO to lower values; and (ii) a decrease of the relative in- tensity of bands corresponding to bridged species [1].
This was first clearly demonstrated by Soma-Noto and Sachtler [38] on supported PdAg alloys. Moreover, a very elegant method, adsorption of 12CO/13CO mix- ture, allows to discriminate in the υCO shift what is due to dilution effect and what comes from ligand ef- fect (electronic effect) [39].
PdCu system is a typical example where IR-CO experiments were applied with success. The first and main conclusion was a dilution of Pd by Cu in a ran- dom fashion [20,21,4043]. However, on PdCu/SiO2 catalysts prepared from mixed acetylacetonate precur- sors it was further postulated that the Cu atoms are preferentially located on the edges of the small crystals and (or) on the (1 0 0) open faces, rather on the (1 1 1) facets [42]. This idea of preferential migration of Cu on low coordination sites will be supported by ion scattering spectroscopy on various PdCu alloys [44],theoretical studies on PdCu single crystals [45] and cubo-octaedral aggregates [46]. Moreover, the absence of any υCO shift at low 12CO coverage in 12CO/13CO IR experiments on Pd and PdCu alloys was interpreted as a very low ligand effect in this system [39]. How- ever, from XANES and IR-CO experiments [20] and quantum chemical calculations [19], it was claimed that an intra-atomic charge redistribution between 4d and 5s states of Pd occurs upon alloying with Cu.
2.3. Mixed-sites
It is somehow difficult to give an unequivocal defi- nition of the mixed-sites. One can tentatively propose Fig. 4. Schematic representation of the activation of the C=O bond in ,-unsaturated carbonyls on PdMx+. that a mixed-site is an active site where both compo- nents of the alloys participate in the catalytic transfor- mation. In some cases, such a site can show a higher catalytic activity than any of the pure metals, without real alteration of the individual electronic properties.
This situation can be illustrated in alloys between two transition metals: a better catalytic activity was pro- posed for C2H6 hydrogenolysis in mixed PdNi sites composed of six Ni atoms diluted in the Pd matrix [47].
Very interesting also is the case of Pd-promoter in which the promoter is not fully reduced in the running conditions of the reaction. In this situation, mixed-site can be described as PdMx+. Synergistic effects in such sites have been claimed to occur during the liquid phase hydrogenation of ,-unsaturated aldehydes, al- though Pd was not the commonly used active metal for this reaction [1,48]; this is illustrated in Fig. 4.
The promotion effect is due to a positively charged cationic species Mx+ activating the C=O bond, which becomes easily hydrogenated. The building of this mixed-site is very similar to what is occurring in the well-known strong metal support interaction (SMSI) [49]. SMSI occurs when Pt, Pd, Rh, . . . deposited on some reducible supports, TiO2, Nb2O5, . . . are re- duced at high temperature. There is a partial reduction of the support, e.g. TiO2, with the migration of TiOx adspecies onto the surface of metallic particles. This phenomenon leads to a dilution of the metal surface (Pt, Pd, . . . ) into smaller ensembles, and the creation of mixed-sites Pd-(TiOx)δ+. Some electronic modifi- cations of the noble metal have also been claimed [49].
2.4. The problem of the β-PdH phase
A peculiar behavior of Pd concerns its ability to form hydride phases, which could explain to some ex- tent the catalytic properties in hydrogenation of un- saturated hydrocarbons [50]. The solubility isotherms and X-ray results clearly show the existence of two
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117134
123 solid solutions, named  and , under normal condi- tions [51]. The latter tends to disappear as the size of Pd particles decreases to the nanometer scale [5254].
The presence of -PdH phase in the catalyst consid- erably increases the acetylene hydrogenation rate to ethane, and is concurrently accompanied by a low se- lectivity to ethylene [53]. The decomposition of the -PdH phase results in a sharp increase toward the ethylene selectivity, and electronic effects were mainly accounted for the interpretation of these behaviors.
Upon incorporation of a second metal such as Cu [55], Sn or Pb [56], and its diffusion into the bulk due to appropriate thermal treatments, the suppression of the -PdH phase was postulated for supported bimetallic catalyst. In both cases, in parallel to the disappear- ance of -PdH there was a decrease of the TOF for the hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene on PdCu [55], and of isoprene on PdSn and PdPb catalysts [56]. There was also a concurrent increase for the selectivity to alkenes.
2.5. Some comments
It comes out that the influence of co-metal on the Pd performances can be interpreted in terms of geomet- ric or electronic effects, the occurrence of mixed-sites and the disappearance of -PdH. On the other hand,it is well known that some classes of reactions are more or less sensitive to some of these factors. For in- stance, the electronic factors play a definite role in the selective hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons,whilst geometric considerations are prevailing in the hydrogenolysis of alkanes; besides, the occurrence of mixed-sites is a dominating factor in the selective hy- drogenation of ,-unsaturated aldehydes to unsatu- rated alcohols. As a consequence, for a given catalytic formulation, i.e. PdSn, interpretation of the Sn influ- ence on Pd properties depends directly on the reaction considered.
As above-mentioned it is worth noting that the in- fluence of co-metal on Pd performances will be cru- cially affected by (i) the degree of intimate interaction between the two components in the same aggregates;and (ii) the chemical state of the co-metal. In the fol- lowing section, we will give an outlook on the ways by which the different methods used to synthesize the catalysts could affect these factors. Finally, a last sec- tion will provide a short overview about the influence of co-metal on Pd performances in various classes of reactions, which are treated in more details in other part of this review book.
3. Preparation of Pd-based alloys catalysts
There are two main steps in bimetallic catalysts preparation. The first consists of deposing the ac- tive component precursors as a divided form on the support, whereas the second consists of transform- ing these precursors into the required active phase.
It is worth noting that industrially a large majority of deposition methods involve aqueous solutions and liquidsolid interface. The activation of the deposited precursors will obviously have a clear impact on the chemical nature and the mutual interaction between the two components, e.g. Pd and co-metal M. One can anticipate that treatments in a mild reducing medium at low temperature will maintain the ionic states to some extent, whilst reduction at high temperature in pure hydrogen will promote pure alloy formation,and intermetallic compounds when possible. In the following, we will not treat this aspect and the atten- tion will be focused on the influence of the deposition method. The deposition method of both Pd and M precursors can be tentatively categorized within three general methods:
1. The non-selective deposition (NSD) in which there
is no interaction between Pd and M precursors dur- ing the deposition process.
2. The selective deposition (SD) in which one precur-
sor, of the co-metal M in the very general case, is selectively deposited onto the metallic particles of the other component.
3. The deposition of heterobinuclear organometallic
complexes, or inorganic salts, of Pd and M.
As for the activation process, the choice of both de- position method and support will affect the vicinity of Pd and M in the same aggregates, as well as their chemical state. When NSD is used, a close vicinity be- tween the two components is not always achieved in the final reduced catalyst, and a wide family of mono- and bimetallic particles of different compositions ex- ists at the support surface. This is the main reason for the development of SD methods and deposition of het- erobinuclear complexes to achieve a closer interaction 124
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117134
between the two components. In-fine the knowledge of the architecture of the active site for a given reac- tion will help to decide what kind of deposition will achieve the rational design of the selective catalyst.
Before focusing on various methods for precursor deposition, we will shortly present a case study, sup- ported PdFe catalyst reduced in similar conditions,demonstrating the incidence of deposition protocol on the physico-chemical properties of the material. In PdFe/Al2O3 prepared from NSD of inorganic salts,fully reduced PdFe alloys and Fe3+ coexist [57,58].
However, it has been claimed that the dipping se- quence affects the Fe3+ proportion which increases when H2PdCl4 is deposited first, then FeCl3 [58].
When SiO2 is used as support, PdFe is also present as a dispersed metallic phase, but part of Fe will be then present as Fe2+ [59]. When a high purity graphite support was used for the NSD of inorganic salts, the supported metal particles consist of thermodynami- cally stable segregated state of metallic Fe and PdFe alloys [60], in accordance with the bulk immiscibil- ity of the two phases [51].This emphasizes the influ- ence of the support on the chemical state of the two components: a weak metal-support interaction, with the graphite support, allows the creation of bimetallic structures predicted from bulk behavior, yet not found when refractory oxide supports are employed. The use of PdFe heterobinuclear carbonyl complexes for the preparation of PdFe/SiO2 catalysts leads to bimetallic particles composed of PdFe alloy and PdFe3+ pairs with great intimacy [61]. Finally, PdFe/Al2O3 pre- pared from underpotential deposition (UPD) of Fe3+ onto a pre-reduced parent Pd/Al2O3 allows the selec- tive deposition of Fe0 near Pd sites of low coordina- tion [62].
3.1. Non selective deposition of the precursors
This method mainly applies when M is a transition metal. The basic principle of NSD of Pd and M pre- cursors, together or successively, is such that the in- teraction of both precursors with the solid surface was stronger than between the two precursors. On that ac- count the two deposited precursors are separated on the support and surface diffusion will be necessary to yield the bimetallic aggregates during the activa- tion process. NSD will use the same deposition meth- ods as for monometallic catalysts, which are described in details in several reviews ([1,6366], and refer- ences therein). According to the final degree of metal- lic dispersion targeted, the deposition will be done by ion-exchange, chemical grafting or wet impregnation.
The two formers allow deposition of atomically dis- tributed precursors which leads to highly dispersed metallic phase upon subsequent reduction. In contrast,aggregates of the precursors are formed by impregna- tion, yielding larger metallic particles. As mentioned above, the methods using aqueous medium and inor- ganic complexes are much more popular in industry.
3.1.1. NSD by ion exchange
Ion exchange consists of replacing an ion in an electrostatic interaction with the surface of a support by another species. The support containing ion A is immersed into an excess volume of a solution con- taining ion B that is to be introduced. Ion B gradually penetrates into the pores of the support and replaces ion A, which passes into solution, until an equilibrium is established corresponding to a given distribution of the two ions between the solid and the solution. Oxide surfaces, and charcoal in some cases, contacted with water are generally covered with hydroxyl groups, Surf-OH, where Surf stands for Al, Si, Ti, . . . The following equilibria exist in aqueous solution: Surf-OH2+ + OH= Surf-OH + H2O = Surf-O+ H3O+ (2) The resulting surface charge, which arises from an excess of one type of charged site over the other, is a function of the solution pH. A given value of pH ex- ists for which the particle is not charged overall. This value is characteristic of the oxide and is called the zero point charge (ZPC) of the oxide. The metal pre- cursors generally used are transition metal complexes (TMC), e.g. Pd(NH3)4Cl2 or PdCl4K2. In aqueous so- lution, TMC is surrounded by H2O in the outer sol- vation sphere, whereas the ligand L (Cl, NH3, . . . ) is in the inner coordination sphere (Fig. 5). The method of preparation will be based on the different kinds of ion-support interaction (ISI) between TMC and the support surface [67], through the concept of the inter- facial coordination chemistry (ICC) [68]. In the ion exchange, an electrostatic interaction occurs between transition metal ion (TMI) and the support after ex- change of TMC with H3O+ in the case of a positively
B. Coq, F. Figueras / Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 173 (2001) 117134
125 Fig. 5. Schematic representation of a cationic transition metal complexe (TMC). charged surface: Pd(NH3)42+ + 2[Surf-OH3O+] = [Surf-O]2Pd(NH3)42+ + 2H3O+ (3) the same interaction obviously applies for the TMC of the co-metal M.
The support surface acts as a supramolecular counter-anion. The resulting ISI is generally strong and leads to nano-sized (12 nm) particles after acti- vation. The homogeneous distribution of both TMIs of Pd and M through the grain of the support will be a key factor for their further interaction in the same aggregates. A similar strength of interaction between both TMIs and support will promote this homogeneous distribution.
Another drawback associated with the strength of ISI could be the necessity of a high reduction tem- perature (i) to favor surface diffusion of the various species to aggregate; and (ii) to reach the metallic state for both components. Some sintering can then occur.
On that account, the choice of a ligand L with high reducing power can partially solve this problem. It has thus been claimed that homogeneous nanometric bimetallic PdAu particles located in the supercages of Y zeolite can be obtained from co-exchange of HY with Pd(en)2+ and Au(en)23+ (en = ethylenediamine) [69]. The ethylenediamine ligand allows the in situ reduction of Pd and Au in inert atmosphere without significant sintering.
Providing the ion exchange capacity of the surface has not been exceeded, the sequence of deposition of both TMCs is of no importance; however, co-exchange is generally preferred.
3.1.2. NSD by grafting
The grafting of organometallic complexes on a sup- port can be achieved generally through the chemical reaction with surface hydroxyl groups, with the re- moval of one or more organic ligands from the inner coordination sphere of the metal complex ([66,70], and


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do DFT calculations of surface d-band center and adsorbate binding energies for various C═C bond-containing molecules (including linear alkenes, cyclic hydrocarbons, and aromatics) on Pt-3d catalysts correlate with experimental observations from techniques such as TPD measurements, and how can this integrated theoretical and experimental approach be utilized to predict hydrogenation activity and inform the design of more efficient Pt-3d catalytic systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 