<quotes>

[1] "The electrospinning synthesis of the catalyst ensures the uniform dispersion and stability of the boron species on the open silica fiber framework."
[2] "The one-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures not only prevented diffusion limitation but also guaranteed high catalytic activity at high weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) in the ODH of alkanes."
[3] "Compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts, PBSN catalysts showed higher olefin selectivity and stability."
[4] "The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may cause low propylene selectivity during the ODH of propane."
[5] "The PBSN catalysts were obtained by calcination of the materials in air at 650 C for 3 h."
[6] "The XRD patterns of the PBSN catalysts in Fig. 2(c) show a broad reflection in the 2θ range of 1529, which is attributed to the amorphous nature of SiO2. B2O3 signals were not observed, suggesting that the B2O3 species may be highly dispersed in the fiber structure, together with the results of STEM-EDX mapping."
[7] "The 11B NMR analysis showed that the tri- and tetra-coordinated boron species were immobilized on the catalysts via BOSi bridges, which is consistent with the FTIR results."
[8] "The boron species were almost unchanged in the PBSN-3 catalyst, suggesting that they were stably immobilized on the PBSN catalyst compared to the supported ones."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The electrospinning synthesis of the PBSN catalyst ensures the uniform dispersion and stability of the boron species on the open silica fiber framework. The one-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and guarantee high catalytic activity at high WHSV in the ODH of alkanes. Compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts, PBSN catalysts show higher olefin selectivity and stability. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may cause low propylene selectivity during the ODH of propane. The PBSN catalysts are obtained by calcination of the materials in air at 650 C for 3 h. The XRD patterns of the PBSN catalysts show a broad reflection in the 2θ range of 1529, indicating the amorphous nature of SiO2 and the high dispersion of B2O3 species in the fiber structure. The 11B NMR analysis shows that the tri- and tetra-coordinated boron species are immobilized on the catalysts via BOSi bridges, consistent with the FTIR results. The boron species are almost unchanged in the PBSN-3 catalyst, suggesting that they are stably immobilized on the PBSN catalyst compared to the supported ones.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.电纺丝合成的PBSN催化剂确保了硼物种在开放的二氧化硅纤维框架上的均匀分散和稳定性。一维纳米纤维的开放孔结构不仅防止了扩散限制，而且在烷烃的ODH中保证了在高WHSV下的高催化活性。与其它支持的硼氧化物催化剂相比，PBSN催化剂显示出更高的烯烃选择性和稳定性。在硅胶支持的硼催化剂中存在SiOH基团可能会导致丙烷ODH过程中丙烯选择性的降低。PBSN催化剂是通过在空气中以650 C煅烧材料3小时获得的。PBSN催化剂的XRD图案在2θ范围的1529显示了宽反射，这归因于SiO2的无定性，以及B2O3物种在纤维结构中的高度分散。11B NMR分析表明，三和四配位的硼物种通过BOSi桥在催化剂上固定，这与FTIR结果一致。在PBSN-3催化剂中，硼物种几乎没有变化，这表明它们在PBSN催化剂上比支持的催化剂更稳定地固定。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
