<quotes>

[1] "Porous boron-doped silica nanofibers (PBSNs) 100150 nm in diameter by electrospinning and the study of their catalytic performance."
[2] "The electrospinning synthesis of the catalyst ensures the uniform dispersion and stability of the boron species on the open silica fiber framework."
[3] "The one-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures not only prevented diffusion limitation but also guaranteed high catalytic activity at high weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) in the ODH of alkanes."
[4] "Compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts, PBSN catalysts showed higher olefin selectivity and stability."
[5] "The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may cause low propylene selectivity during the ODH of propane."
[6] "The PBSN catalysts were obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination in air."
[7] "The TEM image of PBSN-3 ( Fig. 1(c) ) shows a porous structure associated with a homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements in the entire catalyst ( Fig. 1(d) )."
[8] "The XRD patterns of the PBSN catalysts in Fig. 2(c) show a broad reflection in the 2θ range of 1529, which is attributed to the amorphous nature of SiO2. B2O3 signals were not observed, suggesting that the B2O3 species may be highly dispersed in the fiber structure, together with the results of STEM-EDX mapping."
[9] "The structural characterization of the control sample B2O3/gel is shown in Fig. S2. In the XRD pattern, the B2O3 signal can be detected, indicating that the supported catalyst allows the aggregation of B2O3."
[10] "The 11B NMR analysis showed that the tri- and tetra-coordinated boron species were immobilized on the catalysts via BOSi bridges, which is consistent with the FTIR results."
[11] "The boron species were almost unchanged in the PBSN-3 catalyst, suggesting that they were stably immobilized on the PBSN catalyst compared to the supported ones."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The porous boron-doped silica nanofibers (PBSNs) synthesized by electrospinning have a diameter of 100150 nm. The electrospinning synthesis ensures the uniform dispersion and stability of the boron species on the open silica fiber framework. The one-dimensional nanofibers with open pore structures not only prevent diffusion limitation but also guarantee high catalytic activity at high weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) in the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of alkanes. Compared to other supported boron oxide catalysts, PBSN catalysts show higher olefin selectivity and stability. The presence of SiOH groups in silica-supported boron catalysts may cause low propylene selectivity during the ODH of propane. The PBSN catalysts were obtained by electrospinning followed by calcination in air. The TEM image shows a porous structure associated with a homogeneous distribution of Si, B, and O elements in the entire catalyst. The XRD patterns show a broad reflection in the 2θ range of 1529, which is attributed to the amorphous nature of SiO2. B2O3 signals were not observed, suggesting that the B2O3 species may be highly dispersed in the fiber structure. The structural characterization of the control sample B2O3/gel shows that the B2O3 signal can be detected, indicating that the supported catalyst allows the aggregation of B2O3. The 11B NMR analysis shows that the tri- and tetra-coordinated boron species were immobilized on the catalysts via BOSi bridges. The boron species were almost unchanged in the PBSN-3 catalyst, suggesting that they were stably immobilized on the PBSN catalyst compared to the supported ones.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.通过电纺丝合成的多孔硼掺杂二氧化硅纳米纤维（PBSNs）直径为100150纳米。电纺丝合成确保了硼物种在开放的二氧化硅纤维框架上的均匀分散和稳定性。具有开放孔结构的一维纳米纤维不仅防止了扩散限制，而且在烷烃氧化脱氢（ODH）中保证了在高重量每小时空间速度（WHSV）下的高催化活性。与其它支持的硼氧化物催化剂相比，PBSN催化剂显示出更高的烯烃选择性和稳定性。在硅胶支持的硼催化剂中存在SiOH基团可能会导致丙烷ODH过程中丙烯选择性降低。PBSN催化剂是通过电纺丝后在空气中煅烧获得的。TEM图像显示了与整个催化剂中Si、B和O元素均匀分布相关的多孔结构。XRD图谱在2θ范围为1529度时显示出宽的反射，这归因于SiO2的无定形性质。没有观察到B2O3信号，表明B2O3物种可能在纤维结构中高度分散。对照样品B2O3/gel的结构表征表明，B2O3信号可以被检测到，表明支持的催化剂允许B2O3的聚集。11B NMR分析表明，三和四配位的硼物种通过BOSi桥在催化剂上固定。在PBSN-3催化剂中，硼物种几乎没有变化，表明它们在PBSN催化剂上比支持的催化剂更稳定。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
