<quotes>
1. "An innovative LaFe0.95Pd0.05O3 perovskite catalyst, named the intelligent catalyst, has been developed, and which has a new self-regenerative function of the precious metal in the inherent fluctuations of automotive exhaust-gas."
2. "The catalyst retained a predominantly perovskite structure throughout a redox cycle of the exhaust-gas, while the local structure around Pd could be changed in a completely reversible manner."
3. "The agglomeration and growth of Pd particles is suppressed, even under the severe environment,as a result of the movement between inside and outside the perovskite lattice."
4. "It is revealed that the self-regenerative function of Pd occurs even at 200 C, unexpectedly low temperature, in the LaFe0.95Pd0.05O3 catalyst."
5. "Since the high catalytic activity is maintained, the great reduction of Pd loading has been achieved."
6. "The intelligent catalyst is expected as a new application of the rare earth, and then the technology is expected in the same way in the global standard of the catalyst designing."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The LaFe0.95Pd0.05O3 perovskite catalyst, known as the intelligent catalyst, possesses a self-regenerative function for precious metals in the fluctuations of automotive exhaust gases. Throughout the redox cycle of the exhaust-gas, the catalyst maintains its perovskite structure, allowing for a completely reversible change in the local structure around the Pd atoms. The movement of Pd atoms between the perovskite lattice and metallic particles suppresses the agglomeration and growth of Pd particles, even under severe environmental conditions. Remarkably, this self-regenerative function of Pd occurs at an unexpectedly low temperature of 200°C, resulting in high catalytic activity while significantly reducing the Pd loading. This technology is anticipated to be a novel application of rare earth elements and is expected to contribute to the global standard of catalyst design.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
LaFe0.95Pd0.05O3铁氧体催化剂，称为智能催化剂，具有在汽车排气波动中贵金属的自再生功能。在整个排气气体的氧化还原循环中，催化剂保持其铁氧体结构，允许局部结构围绕Pd原子发生完全可逆的变化。Pd原子在铁氧体晶格内外的移动抑制了Pd颗粒的聚集和生长，即使在恶劣的环境中也是如此。值得注意的是，Pd的这种自再生功能甚至在200°C的较低温度下就能发生，从而在维持高催化活性的同时显著减少了Pd的负载量。这项技术预计将成为稀有地球元素的新应用，并有望为全球催化剂设计标准做出贡献。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
