<quotes>

[1] "Ordered macroporous materials with rapid mass transport and enhanced active site accessibility are essential for achieving improved catalytic activity."
[2] "Boron phosphate crystals with a three-dimensionally interconnected ordered macroporous structure and a robust framework were fabricated and used as stable and selective catalysts in the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane."
[3] "The tri-coordinated surface boron species were identified as the active catalytic sites for the ODH of propane."
[4] "The synthesis of ordered macroporous BPO4 was conducted via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, as illustrated in Fig. 1(a) ."
[5] "The ordered macroporous structure was an inverse replica of the template, with an average diameter of 200 nm for the interconnected macropores."
[6] "The interconnected macropores of the BPO4(OM) sample were formed through the inverse templating effect of the polybenzoxazine polymer spheres, consisting of a matrix of macropores bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels of 80 nm in diameter."
[7] "The presence of macroporosity in BPO4 was further confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis (Fig. S1); the cumulative pore volume vs. pore diameter curve showed a continuous increase in mercury uptake with decreasing pore diameter (i.e., increasing Hg intrusion pressure)."
[8] "The specific surface areas of BPO4(OM) and BPO4(bulk) were estimated to be 75 and 22 m2 g1, respectively."
[9] "The ordered macroporous BPO4 framework exhibited excellent structural stability during the ODH of propane."
[10] "The interconnected and open macropores of BPO4 are beneficial to the mass transfer to allow the active sites easily accessible and lead to better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The ordered macroporous structure of boron phosphate crystals enhances catalytic performance by providing rapid mass transport and enhanced accessibility to active sites. The three-dimensionally interconnected ordered macroporous structure and robust framework of boron phosphate crystals were synthesized using hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination. The tri-coordinated surface boron species were identified as the active catalytic sites for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. The ordered macroporous structure was an inverse replica of the template, with an average diameter of 200 nm for the interconnected macropores. The interconnected macropores of the BPO4(OM) sample were formed through the inverse templating effect of the polybenzoxazine polymer spheres, consisting of a matrix of macropores bridged by ink-bottle neck-like channels of 80 nm in diameter. The presence of macroporosity in BPO4 was confirmed by mercury intrusion analysis, and the specific surface areas of BPO4(OM) and BPO4(bulk) were estimated to be 75 and 22 m2 g1, respectively. The ordered macroporous BPO4 framework exhibited excellent structural stability during the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. The interconnected and open macropores of BPO4 are beneficial to the mass transfer to allow the active sites easily accessible and lead to better catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.有序大孔结构的硼酸盐晶体通过提供快速的质量传递和增强的活性位点可及性，提高了催化性能。使用水热辅助合成和煅烧合成了硼酸盐晶体的三维互连有序大孔结构和坚固的框架。三配位表面硼物种被鉴定为丙烷氧化脱氢的活性催化位点。有序大孔结构是模板的逆副本，互连大孔的平均直径为200纳米。BPO4(OM)样品的互连大孔是通过聚苯并嗪聚合物球的逆模板效应形成的，由大孔矩阵组成，大孔由80纳米直径的墨瓶颈状通道连接。BPO4中的大孔性通过汞侵入分析得到证实，BPO4(OM)和BPO4(bulk)的比表面积分别估计为75和22 m2 g1。有序大孔BPO4框架在丙烷氧化脱氢过程中表现出优异的结构稳定性。BPO4的互连和开放大孔有利于质量传递，使活性位点易于接近，并在高空间速度条件下导致更好的催化效率。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
