<quotes>

[1] "Ordered macroporous materials with rapid mass transport and enhanced active site accessibility are essential for achieving improved catalytic activity."
[2] "Boron phosphate crystals with a three-dimensionally interconnected ordered macroporous structure and a robust framework were fabricated and used as stable and selective catalysts in the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane."
[3] "Due to the improved mass diffusion and higher number of exposed active sites in the ordered macroporous structure, the catalyst exhibited a remarkable olefin productivity of 16 golefin gcat1 h1, which is up to 2100 times higher than that of ODH catalysts reported to date."
[4] "The tri-coordinated surface boron species were identified as the active catalytic sites for the ODH of propane."
[5] "The synthesis of ordered macroporous BPO4 was conducted via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, as illustrated in Fig. 1(a) ."
[6] "Boric acid and phosphoric acid were employed as sources of boron and phosphorus, respectively, and monodisperse polybenzoxazine polymer spheres were used as the hard template."
[7] "The ordered macroporous structure was an inverse replica of the template, with an average diameter of 200 nm for the interconnected macropores."
[8] "The elemental mapping images ( Fig. 1(g) ) show a homogeneous distribution of the B, O, and P elements in the whole BPO4 crystals."
[9] "The macropore sizes and the intergrown nanocrystals were essentially unchanged."
[10] "The XRD pattern of the spent BPO4(OM) after the catalytic reaction ( Fig. 3(e) ) was identical to that of the fresh catalyst."
[11] "The B and P species, with chemical shifts of ca. 5.3 and 31 ppm, respectively, were essentially retained after the reaction."
[12] "The presence of abundant tetra-coordinated boron species in the catalysts had two consequences: on one hand, the boron sites were too crowded to be accessible to nucleophilic species; on the other hand, the electron density in the vicinity of the boron sites was enhanced."
[13] "The content of tri-coordinated surface boron species increased from ca. 41% in fresh BPO4(OM) to 51% in the spent catalyst."
[14] "These results likely indicate that the tri-coordinated boron species were responsible for the ODH of propane."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Boron-based materials with three-dimensional dispersed active sites in porous frameworks have rapid mass transport and enhanced active site accessibility, which are essential for achieving improved catalytic activity. The ordered macroporous boron phosphate crystals with a robust framework were synthesized and used as stable and selective catalysts in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. The catalyst exhibited a remarkable olefin productivity due to the improved mass diffusion and higher number of exposed active sites in the ordered macroporous structure. The tri-coordinated surface boron species were identified as the active catalytic sites for the ODH of propane. The synthesis of ordered macroporous BPO4 was conducted via hydrothermal-assisted synthesis and calcination, using boric acid and phosphoric acid as sources of boron and phosphorus, respectively, and monodisperse polybenzoxazine polymer spheres as the hard template. The ordered macroporous structure was an inverse replica of the template, with an average diameter of 200 nm for the interconnected macropores. The elemental mapping images show a homogeneous distribution of the B, O, and P elements in the whole BPO4 crystals. The macropore sizes and the intergrown nanocrystals were essentially unchanged after the reaction. The XRD pattern of the spent BPO4(OM) after the catalytic reaction was identical to that of the fresh catalyst. The B and P species were essentially retained after the reaction. The presence of abundant tetra-coordinated boron species in the catalysts had two consequences: on one hand, the boron sites were too crowded to be accessible to nucleophilic species; on the other hand, the electron density in the vicinity of the boron sites was enhanced. The content of tri-coordinated surface boron species increased from ca. 41% in fresh BPO4(OM) to 51% in the spent catalyst. These results likely indicate that the tri-coordinated boron species were responsible for the ODH of propane. The methods used to incorporate B active components into these structures are effective for different catalytic applications.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.具有三维分散活性位点的多孔框架中的硼基材料具有快速的质量传递和增强的活性位点可及性，这对于实现改进的催化活性至关重要。有序的多孔硼酸盐晶体具有坚固的框架，被合成并用作丙烷氧化脱氢的稳定和选择性催化剂。由于有序多孔结构中改进的质量扩散和暴露的活性位点数量增加，催化剂表现出显著的烯烃生产力。三配位表面硼物种被鉴定为丙烷氧化脱氢的活性催化位点。有序多孔BPO4的合成是通过水热辅助合成和煅烧进行的，使用硼酸和磷酸作为硼和磷的来源，以及单分散聚苯并恶嗪聚合物球体作为硬模板。有序多孔结构是模板的逆向复制品，互连的多孔平均直径为200纳米。元素映射图像显示整个BPO4晶体中B、O和P元素的均匀分布。反应后，多孔尺寸和互生长的纳米晶体基本保持不变。催化反应后，BPO4(OM)的XRD图谱与新鲜催化剂的图谱相同。反应后，B和P物种基本保留。催化剂中大量四配位硼物种的存在有两个后果：一方面，硼位点过于拥挤，无法被亲核性物种接近；另一方面，硼位点附近电子密度增加。新鲜BPO4(OM)中三配位表面硼物种的含量从约41%增加到消耗催化剂中的51%。这些结果可能表明，三配位硼物种对丙烷氧化脱氢负责。将B活性组分掺入这些结构中的方法对不同的催化应用是有效的。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
