<quotes>
Catalysis Letters 2 (1989) 309-318
In our recent studies [16-18] on the conversion of methane by nitrous oxide on silica supported heteropoly oxometalates, it was shown that the addition of a small quantity of dichloro- or tetrachloromethane to the feed stream has a profound influence on the conversion of methane and selectivities to different products.
In the light of these positive effects of a chloroadditive on the partial oxidation of methane as observed with heteropoly oxometalates in this laboratory we have undertaken an extensive study of the effect of these chlorocompounds on the direct oxidative coupling of methane to higher hydrocarbons using a variety of catalytic materials.
Over Ba/SiO2 and Cs/SiO2, a substantial increase in the yield of C2 hydrocarbons is noted in the initial hours of reaction. Over Cs, however, this increase in the yield of C2 hydrocarbons is not maintained with further process time. On Ba/SiO2 a large increase in the selectivity to C2 hydrocarbon in the initial periods of reaction is observed as well.
At the present stage, very little can be said about the mechanism of the reaction. The fact that an increase in oxygen concentration increases the ratio of C2H4 to C2H6 appears to indicate as suggested by others in the absence of CCI4 [5,10,19], that C2H6 is the primary C2 product and C2H4 is produced by the subsequent oxidative dehydrogenation of C2H6. The relatively high ratio of C2H4 to C2H6 observed in the presence of CC14 in the feed suggests that halogen radicals supplied from CC14 are catalyzing the dehydrogenation of C2H6 to C2H4.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The enhancement of the oxidative coupling of methane on oxide/SiO2 catalysts by tetrachloromethane is shown to alter both the conversion and selectivity, but notably with oxides of Ba, Cs, and Mn produces remarkable increases in the yield and selectivity to C2H4 and C2H6, particularly the former. The mechanism of the reaction involves the presence of halogen radicals supplied from CC14 catalyzing the dehydrogenation of C2H6 to C2H4. The increase in the ratio of C2H4 to C2H6 in the presence of CC14 suggests that the halogen radicals are involved in this process. Over Ba/SiO2 and Cs/SiO2, a substantial increase in the yield of C2 hydrocarbons is noted in the initial hours of reaction, but this increase in the yield of C2 hydrocarbons is not maintained with further process time over Cs. On Ba/SiO2, a large increase in the selectivity to C2 hydrocarbon in the initial periods of reaction is observed. The addition of tetrachloromethane to the feed stream has a profound influence on the conversion of methane and selectivities to different products.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在氧化耦合甲烷到更高碳氢化合物的过程中，通过在氧化物/SiO2催化剂上引入四氯化碳，转化率和选择性均有所改变，但尤其是Ba、Cs和Mn氧化物，显著提高了C2H4和C2H6的产率和选择性，特别是前者。反应机制表明，从CC14提供的卤素自由基催化了C2H6转化为C2H4的过程。在CC14存在的条件下，C2H4与C2H6的比例较高，表明卤素自由基参与了这一过程。对于Ba/SiO2和Cs/SiO2，在反应初期，C2产物的产率显著增加，但在Cs中，随着反应时间的延长，这种C2产物产率的增加并未保持。在Ba/SiO2上，反应初期观察到了C2产物选择性的显著提高。向反应流中加入四氯化碳对甲烷转化和不同产品的选择性产生了深远的影响。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
