I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Geometric Requirements for Hydrocarbon Catalytic Sites on Platinum Surfaces Graphical Abstract A preferential catalytic mechanism has been identified for the transformation of acetylene to vinylidene on Pt-Sn surfaces. Unlike a direct H shift along the CC bond in organometallic compounds, this mechanism requires three adjacent Pt atoms. The same requirement is identified for CH bond cleavage. Without three-fold Pt sites, the reaction mechanism changes, and reactions of H transfer and CH bond cleavage are suppressed.
Abstract Vibrational spectroscopic measurements and density functional calculations were used to identify a preferential catalytic mechanism for the transformation of acetylene, HCCH, to vinylidene, CCH2, on surfaces of Pt-Sn ordered alloys. In this mechanism, two adjacent Pt atoms adsorb an acetylene molecule and a third neighboring Pt atom is required for stabilizing the reacting H atom during the transformation. Therefore, unlike a direct H shift along the CC bond in organometallic compounds with a single transition-metal atom, this mechanism has a geometric site requirement of three adjacent Pt atoms in the form of a three-fold site. The same geometric site requirement is identified for preferential CH bond cleavage of acetylene with the formation of adsorbed CCH and H species. In the absence of three-fold Pt sites, the reaction mechanism changes, and reactions of H transfer and CH bond cleavage are suppressed.
Pt-based catalysts are used for hydrocarbon transformations in diverse industrial applications. There is also a renewed research interest in catalytic properties of Pt owing to multiple promising new applications, ranging from fuel cells1 to production of renewable transportation fuels and chemical feedstocks based on biomass conversion.2 The transformation of acetylene, HCCH, into vinylidene, CCH2, on Pt and other catalytic metal surfaces has attracted significant attention because the chemistry of C2 hydrocarbons on Pt surfaces has historically served as a bridge between surface science and heterogeneous catalysis studies and because acetylene hydrogenation is an important industrial reaction.3 Acetylene impurities in ethylene feedstocks are unacceptable in polymerization and, therefore, are reduced to trace levels using selective hydrogenation over metal catalysts. The formation of CCH2 species from acetylene adsorbed on a Pt(111) surface has been directly observed microscopically.4 Furthermore, spectroscopic studies with isotope labeling have shown that the transformation into CCH2 is the first acetylene reaction on a Pt(111) surface.5 The reaction mechanism for this transformation on Pt and other metal surfaces, however, has always been assumed to be a direct through space H shift along the CC bond (direct 1,2-H shift), similarly to the HCCH to CCH2 transition identified in organometallic compounds with a single transition-metal atom. For example, in organometallic complexes with a single Ru atom, the direct 1,2-H shift has been found to be preferable to an indirect 1,2-H shift where the reacting H atom binds to both the metal and C atoms and to the pathway with a hydridealkynyl intermediate where the reacting H atom binds only to the metal atom.6 In contrast to organometallic compounds with a single metal atom, metal surfaces offer multiple catalytic sites. Using vibrational spectroscopic measurements and density functional theory (DFT) calculations with well-defined ordered Pt-Sn alloys, we here identify a new mechanism for the catalytic transformation of acetylene into CCH2 species on Pt surfaces that involves surface stabilization of the reaction H atom, which is preferential to the direct 1,2-H shift pathway. We further determine that this preferential mechanism is limited by a geometric requirement: the availability of at least three adjacent surface Pt atoms (three-fold Pt sites). The same geometric site requirement is identified for preferential CH bond cleavage of acetylene with the formation of adsorbed CCH and H species. In the absence of three-fold Pt sites, the reaction mechanism changes, and reactions of H transfer and CH bond cleavage are suppressed.
Catalytic metals, such as Pt, are often modified by adding a promoter, such as Sn, to enhance their performance. Catalytic promoter effects are usually classified as electronic and geometric.7 The presence of a promoter changes the electronic structure and, therefore, the reactivity of neighboring Pt atoms. Furthermore, the presence of promoter atoms breaks the original Pt surface into ensembles of adjacent Pt atoms and, therefore, restricts the geometry of Pt catalytic sites. On a single-crystal surface of Pt(111), there are three main geometric types of catalytic sites: atop (single atom), bridge (two adjacent atoms), and three-fold (three adjacent atoms in a triangle), as shown in Figure1a. For an ordered Pt3Sn (2×2)-Sn/Pt(111) alloy surface in Figure1b, all the initial main geometric Pt sites are preserved. However, at a higher Sn concentration in an ordered Pt2Sn (×)R30-Sn/Pt(111) alloy surface in Figure1c, the arrangement of Sn atoms eliminates all three-fold Pt sites. The Pt surface in this case is broken into ensembles of only one or two neighboring Pt atoms. As the concentrations of Sn in the Pt3Sn and Pt2Sn alloys are not much different, electronic promoter effects should be comparable. Differences in activity between these two Pt-Sn alloy surfaces should, therefore, be mostly due to the geometric effect of eliminating three-fold Pt sites.
Figure 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Catalytic Pt sites on a)Pt(111), b)Pt3Sn/Pt(111), and c)Pt2Sn/Pt(111) single-crystal surfaces: atop (single atom), bridge (two adjacent atoms), and three-fold (three adjacent atoms in a triangle). The Pt2Sn surface does not have three-fold Pt sites. Surfaces are shown with π-adsorbed acetylene on atop Pt sites. The top row shows a top view of only the surface layer for each single crystal for clarity.
DFT calculations for the transformation of HCCH into CCH2 species on the Pt3Sn surface are summarized in Figure2a. Acetylene initially preferentially adsorbs on a bridge Pt site (Figure2a,b-1) with a CH bond distance of 0.11nm, which is nearly the same as in gas-phase acetylene. During the reaction, the CH distance increases to 0.16nm, and the reacting H atom stabilizes on a neighboring Pt atom of a three-fold Pt site (Figure2a,b-3) with an estimated reaction barrier of 167kJmol1. This transition state, therefore, requires a three-fold Pt site. The hydrocarbon then rotates around the reacting H atom, which remains stabilized by the Pt atom, with just a small decrease in the energy from 167 to 164kJmol1 (Figure2a-4). This rotation allows the hydrocarbon to transfer the H atom from one C atom to another energetically efficiently. Once a bond between the reacting H atom and the second C atom is established, this H atom starts breaking the initial bond with the Pt surface. After that, the distance for the newly formed HCH bond decreases to 0.11nm, completing the formation of CCH2 surface species accompanied by a rapid decrease in the system energy (Figure2a-5). This new mechanism thus consists of three parts. In the first part, the CH bond distance increases, the H atom is stabilized by a surface Pt atom, and the system energy increases. In the second part, the hydrocarbon rotates around the surface-stabilized H atom and transfers it from one C atom to another, with the energy being at the highest plateau. Finally, in the third part, the second C atom picks up the reacting H atom from the surface, and the energy decreases. In summary, the adsorbed hydrocarbon uses a Pt atom of a three-fold Pt site for transitional stabilization of the reacting H atom while it is transferred between the two C atoms, making this transfer more energetically efficiently than a direct H shift through space along the CC bond, that is, without establishing a bond between the H atom and the Pt surface.
Figure 2 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Acetylene reaction pathways in the presence of three-fold Pt sites on the Pt3Sn surface with the formation of a)CCH2 and b)CCH and H surface species. The top number for each configuration shows the energy relative to adsorbed acetylene (kJmol1) and the lower number shows the CH distance (nm).
Evaluation of multiple pathways for CH bond cleavage on the same Pt3Sn surface shows that this reaction also preferably proceeds through stabilization of the reacting H atom on a Pt atom of a three-fold Pt site. This pathway is summarized in Figure2b. The estimated transition state on a three-fold Pt site is the same for both the H transfer and CH cleavage (Figure2a,b-3) within the accuracy of the employed search method. After the initial increase in the CH bond distance and stabilization of the reacting H atom on a Pt atom of a three-fold Pt site, the CH distance continues to increase (Figure2b-4), and the H atom moves away from the CCH surface species (Figure2b-5). This pathway has a lower barrier compared to H stabilization on another neighboring Pt atom or on the Pt atom that binds the reacting C atom.
In the absence of three-fold Pt sites on the Pt2Sn surface, the mechanism of H transfer with surface stabilization becomes impossible because Sn atoms do not bind either H or C atoms nearly as strongly as Pt. As a result, the only possible mechanism in this case is a direct through space H shift between the two C atoms (direct 1,2-H shift), which is summarized in Figure3a. The hydrocarbon in this mechanism remains stationary as the reacting H shifts and forms CCH2 species. In the transition state, the CH bond distance increases from the 0.11nm initial value to 0.13nm, and the reacting H is bonded to both carbon atoms (Figure3a-3). As the reacting H in this transition is not stabilized by the catalytic surface, the calculated barrier for this reaction mechanism at 190kJmol1 is higher than that on a three-fold Pt site at 167kJmol1 (Figure2a,b-3). After completion of the H shift on the Pt2Sn surface, the final step in the reaction involves a change in the surface binding of CCH2 species. The CCH2 molecule stands up, changing from a configuration where each C atom binds to one of the Pt atoms of a PtPt bridge site (Figure3a-4) to a configuration where only one C atom binds to the PtPt bridge site and the CH2 group is not bonded directly to the surface, with the CC bond being oriented normal to the surface (Figure3a-5). The geometries for all the structures in Figure2 and Figure3 are provided in TablesS1S4. Differences in the calculated energy barriers provide a comparison of alternative reaction pathways.
Figure 3 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Acetylene reaction pathways in the absence of three-fold Pt sites on the Pt2Sn surface with the formation of a)CCH2 and b)CCH and H surface species. The top number for each configuration shows the energy relative to adsorbed acetylene (kJmol1) and the lower number shows the CH distance (nm).
CH cleavage in the absence of three-fold Pt sites can proceed only through H stabilization on a neighboring Pt atom or on the Pt atom that binds the reacting C atom. The stabilization on a neighboring Pt atom, shown in Figure3b, is energetically preferable. The CH bond distance in the transition state is estimated at 0.16nm (Figure3b-3), the same as on a three-fold Pt site (Figure2b-2). The calculated reaction barrier in the absence of a three-fold Pt site, however, is higher at 190kJmol1 compared to 167kJmol1. Thus, the geometry of a three-fold Pt site allows better stabilization of the transitional configuration for CH cleavage. In summary, the presence of three-fold Pt sites reduces the energy barriers for both H transfer and CH cleavage reactions. Moreover, the presence of three-fold Pt sites opens a new mechanism for H transfer reactions involving H stabilization by the surface.
The changes in the reaction mechanism that are due to the absence of three-fold Pt sites were validated experimentally by comparing transformations of adsorbed acetylene as a function of temperature on exactly the same Pt3Sn/Pt(111) and Pt2Sn/Pt(111) surfaces that were used in the computational studies (Figure1b,c). These two Pt-Sn ordered surface alloys were prepared by evaporating Sn onto a Pt(111) single-crystal surface and subsequently annealing the samples to 1000K. This high annealing temperature generated surfaces that were stable (no surface reconstruction) under all subsequent testing conditions. Sn was incorporated only in the top surface layer by substituting for Pt atoms,8 and the amount of introduced Sn determined the composition and structure of the alloys. The (2×2) pattern for the Pt3Sn surface and the (×)R30 pattern for the Pt2Sn surface were confirmed with low-energy electron diffraction (LEED) measurements.
Acetylene was dosed at 90K, and its transformations on the Pt-Sn surfaces upon annealing to 500K were monitored with high-resolution electron energy-loss spectroscopy (HREELS). The HREELS spectra are presented in Figure4 with vibrational peak assignments, which were made in our previous study of adsorption energies, preferential adsorption sites, and normal vibrational modes of regular and deuterated C2 hydrocarbon species.3j The computational surface models were also used successfully in our previous studies of ethylene oxide and cyclohexanone adsorption.9 Along with spectroscopic measurements, evolution of gas-phase products after acetylene adsorption was monitored by a quadrupole mass spectrometer in temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) experiments.
Figure 4 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint Evolution of HREELS spectra as a function of annealing temperature after acetylene (HCCH) adsorption on a)Pt3Sn surface with three-fold Pt sites and b)Pt2Sn surface without three-fold Pt sites. The absence of CCH2 on the Pt2Sn surface indicates that both the H transfer and CH bond cleavage reactions are suppressed in the absence of three-fold Pt sites.
At a dosing temperature of 90K, acetylene adsorbs molecularly. At this temperature on the Pt3Sn surface (Figure4a), a single peak in the CC bond stretching (νCC) region is observed at 1601cm1, which is assigned to π-bonded acetylene on atop Pt sites. The same π-bonded HCCH species on atop Pt sites remain on the Pt3Sn surface after annealing to 200K. These HCCH species on atop Pt sites are also observed at 200K on the Pt2Sn surface with a similar νCC peak at 1629cm1 (Figure4b). The peak is shifted to higher wavenumbers on the Pt2Sn surface due to an electronic effect of the higher Sn concentration and a resulting weaker bonding of adsorbed acetylene. In addition to π-bonded HCCH species on atop Pt sites, di-σ bonded HCCH species on bridge Pt sites are observed on the Pt2Sn surface at 200K with a νCC peak at 1490cm1 (Figure4b). In contrast, no equivalent peak is observed for the Pt3Sn surface. Instead, there is a peak at 1413cm1, which is due to CCH2 species (a coupled vibrational mode of CH2 deformation and CC stretching, δ/νCC). Identification of CCH2 species is further confirmed with the observation of ethylidyne, CCH3 species, with characteristic peaks3g,5,10 at 1135 and 1350cm1 at 300400K because CCH2 is a likely intermediate in CCH3 formation through acetylene disproportionation.3d,4,5 At temperatures above 200K for the Pt2Sn surface, π-bonded HCCH species on atop Pt sites desorb first as evidenced by a decrease in the intensity of the peak at 1629cm1, followed by desorption of di-σ bonded HCCH species on bridge Pt sites with the peak at 1490cm1 (Figure4b). Hydrocarbon desorption is substantially complete by 400K when strong vibrational peaks are no longer observed. Importantly, however, CCH2 species are not detected on this surface, which must be due to a kinetic factor and a change in the reaction mechanism due to the absence of three-fold Pt sites, in agreement with the computational results.
Furthermore, the amount of desorbed acetylene molecules in TPD experiments is lower for the Pt3Sn surface than that for the Pt2Sn surface. This result shows that acetylene is more reactive on the Pt3Sn surface. The amount of desorbed hydrogen, which must be formed through CH bond cleavage, on the other hand, is higher for the Pt3Sn surface, which is also in line with higher hydrocarbon reactivity on this surface. These TPD results, which are shown in FigureS1, provide further evidence that both the H transfer and CH cleavage reactions are suppressed in the absence of three-fold Pt sites on the Pt2Sn surface, in agreement with the computational results for the geometric requirements for Pt catalytic sites. As synthesis methods for custom-tailored Pt-Sn1,11 and other Pt alloy surfaces are being rapidly developed that can control both the composition and geometric arrangements of elements, this information on the geometric requirements for hydrocarbon reactivity is critical for realizing the full potential of rational design3i,12 for new Pt bimetallic materials.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 