I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Dealuminated Y zeolites were used to encapsulate Mo(CO)6. 261 Subsequent decarbonylation renders a solid that can act as catalyst in ammonia decomposition. The oxidation state of molybdenum and the overall acidity of the material correlates with its catalytic activity toward ammonia decomposition.261 Transition metals such as copper and iron can be introduced in MCM-41 by ion exchange. Even all-silica MCM-41 that has no charge-balancing cations can admit substantial amounts of iron ions from a methanolic solution. These mesoporous MCM-41 containing Cu2+ or Fe3+ can act as redox catalysts and can convert N2O into NO at room temperature. 262 Fe3+- and Cu2+- exchanged Al/MCM-41 have been found convenient catalysts for the oxidative coupling of 2-naphthol by oxygen or air to form 1,1-binaphthyl (Scheme 23). 263 High conversion and good selectivities have been achieved using Fe-Al/MCM-41.263 This coupling can also be performed using FeCl3/SiO2, FeCl3/Al2O3, Fe3+-exchanged montmorillonite, and Fe3+ and Cu2+ exchanged Y zeolite. 264 In the latter case, a large fraction of the product formed inside the zeolite cavities cannot diffuse out and remains trapped due to the large molecular size of binaphthyl compared to the windows of Y zeolite (0.74 nm).
Scheme 23 Highly dispersed transition metal oxides were obtained by ion-exchanging commercial NaY zeolite with the corresponding salts of transition metal and treating them with NaOH. The resulting zeolites containing encapsulated transition metal oxides, particularly the cobalt oxide@Y, were found to be active to effect the complete oxidation of air-diluted toluene. 265 b.Encapsulated Transition Metals as Oxidation Catalysts. One of the simplest strategy to convert an homogeneous into heterogeneous catalyst is by supporting it by impregnation on a solid. 266 This leads to catalysts that very easily leach the active species in solution, and therefore this method has limited interest unless it is demonstrated beyond any doubt that no migration of the active sites to the liquid phase occurs during extensive use of the catalyst. A procedure for avoiding leaching or, at least, for strongly reducing the process, will be to encapsulate the active bulky species within the cavities of zeolites.
A step forward in the application of Lewis acids for oxidation process, involves the encapsulation of methyltrioxorhenium or tungstates and heteropolytungstates using H2O2 as oxidant. Both types of catalysts have shown to be effective for epoxidation with H2O2 in homogeneous phase.156,267,268 Thus, methyltrioxorhenium has been adsorbed within the supercages of zeolite NaY and used as heterogeneous catalysts for the oxidation of silanes to silanols and epoxidation of olefins using hydrogen peroxide (Scheme 24). 269 Both reaction types proceed with high conversions and selectivities using the encapsulated organometallic compound. In particular, the formation of disiloxanes in one case or the vic-diols in the other, being two processes normally occurring using the homogeneous MeReO3 catalyst, are not observed using encapsulated MeReO3@NaY. These two undesired processes occur from the adventitious Lewis acid-catalyzed condensation of two silanols or from the acid-catalyzed epoxide ring aperture. The high selectivity of the oxidation of MeReO3@NaY was interpreted as due to the spatial restrictions imposed by the zeolite lattice to the occurrence of bimolecular reactions.
Scheme 24 One problem encountered in the oxidation of hydrocarbons with hydrogen peroxide is the inmiscibility of both type of liquids and the difficulty of having an appreciable concentration of substrate and oxidant at the catalytic center. To overcome this problem, an elegant strategy has been to attach covalently poly(ethylene oxide) and poly(propylene oxide) chains to the surface of the silica particles containing methyltrioxorhenium. 270 The presence of these polymeric chains greatly increases the miscibility of the two liquid phases on the catalyst surface. The resulting solid efficiently catalyzes the epoxidation of alkenes with hydrogen peroxide.
The influence of encapsulation inside the pores of zeolite on the activity and selectivity of incorporated guest can be exemplified by the case of mixed ironmolybdenum oxides encapsulated in boralite (FeMo/ Bor). For the selective oxidation of toluene to benzaldehyde, the activity and selectivity of FeMo/Bor have been compared with that of two other conventional catalysts for this process such as vanadium oxide supported on titania and bulk Fe2(MoO4)3. 271 V/TiO2 exhibits a pronounced decrease in the selectivity toward benzaldehyde at increasing toluene conversions compared to FeMo/Bor. This effect was attributed to the presence of stronger Lewis acid sites in V/TiO2 which activate the CO group facilitating its further oxidation to benzoate derivatives. On the other hand, FeMo/Bor shows higher selectivity than Fe2(MoO4)3 at low toluene conversions due to the spatial constraints to the catalytic activity of the mixed FeMo by the zeolite channels, but lower selectivity at high conversions. In the latter case, the longer residence time due to diffusion limitations inside the zeolite channels facilitates the occurrence of secondary reactions in which the aromatic ring undergoes further oxidation to form maleic anhydride and carbon oxides.271 In an extensive series of articles, Barton and co-workers have developed and optimized different catalytic systems, commonly termed as Gif systems, to perform the oxidation of alkanes with hydrogen peroxide or organic hydroperoxides in solution. 272-280 One of the most convenient systems uses the complex of Fe3+ and picolinic acid working in a mixture of acetonitrilepyridine as solvent and hydrogen peroxide as oxidant.276,277 A heterogeneous version of this reaction has been reported in which the Fe3+-picolinate complex has been assembled inside the pores of Fe3+-exchanged zeolites by subsequent addition of picolinic acid. 281 The complex remains immobilized inside the zeolite cavities and channels. This encapsulated complex can catalyze the oxidation of cyclohexane with 93% hydrogen peroxide selectivity toward oxidation at 49% cyclohexane conversion and >90% cyclohexanone selectivity.281 Cu2+-phthalocyanine and Co2+-perfluorophthalocyanine have been prepared inside the pores of MCM-41 by heating a mixture of o-dicyanobenzene and Cu2+ or Co2+-exchanged MCM-41 at 200 C under reduced pressure for 24 h (Scheme 25). 282 The resulting solids supporting metal phthalocyanines have been tested as catalyst for cyclohexane oxidation with hydrogen peroxide or TBHP. The latter was found a more convenient oxidizing reagent. Co2+perfluorophthalocyanine supported on MCM-41 was found more active than the same unsupported complex or when encapsulated in zeolite Y. However, the selectivity of the oxidant toward oxidation of cyclohexane was only moderate.282 Scheme 25 One remarkable example of an encapsulated transition metal complex is the case of chiral Mn(III) salen complex entrapped within the cages of zeolites Y and EMT. 283,284 The complex was prepared by performing the ship-in-a-bottle synthesis of the salen ligand derived from 1,2-diaminocyclohexane around resident Mn(II) ions (Scheme 26). These solids were active for the asymmetric epoxidation of aryl olefins with iodosylbenzene. The highest enantiomeric excesses achieved with the encapsulated complex (60%) were, however, significantly lower than those achieved for the same complex in homogeneous phase (>90% ee).179 Scheme 26 c.Transition Metal Lewis Acids Grafted on Solids. In general, it has to be remarked that metals either exchanged or impregnated in zeolites can leach when operated in liquid phase processes, especially if polar reactants or products are involved. This will also apply to supported metal oxides on other carriers. However, special mention should be made to the Shell catalyst 285 that consists of titanium covalently grafted on silica (Ti/SiO2). This is a real heterogeneous oxidation catalyst that works in liquid phase, but which is only active with organic peroxides. The catalyst containing between 1 and 2.5 wt % of TiO2 on silica is prepared by impregnating silica (high surface fume silica) with a Ti(IV) precursor that affords after activation TiO- grafted on the surface silanols of the support. TiCl4 and Ti(O-i-Pr)4 are good precursors that leave Ti(IV) attached to the surface by at least three silanol groups. 286-288 It has been shown that a SiTi (O-i-Pr) catalyst treated with tartaric acid was active for epoxidations with 30% H2O2 at 80 C with reactive olefins such as cyclooctene or cyclohexene. The last cycloalkene gives mixtures of epoxide, cyclohexane-1,2-diol, and allylic oxidation products. Ti(IV)/SiO2 Shell type catalyst offers an alternative to ARCO's technology (oxirane process) for the production of epoxides and more specifically propylene epoxide using an alkyl hydroperoxide. ARCO's process uses a homogeneous catalyst based on Mo. The reaction proceeds via a peroxometal pathway, and the active catalyst contains the metal in its highest oxidation state. Metals with low oxidation potential and high Lewis acidity in their highest oxidation states are superior catalysts and show the order of reactivity Mo(VI) > W(VI) > V(V) > Ti(IV). 289 The activity of these homogeneous catalysts is strongly diminished by the presence of polar molecules such as H2O, alcohols, and especially glycols that can strongly coordinate with the metal. The epoxidation is stereospecific, i.e., cis olefins give only cis epoxides, and the rate increases with increasing the electron density at the CC double bond, i.e., with increasing the substitution of the double bond by electron donating alkyl groups. This effect is consistent with a nonradical mechanism involving an electrophilic oxidant. 290 The development by Shell of the heterogeneous silica-supported titania catalyst described before was an important step toward an environmentally benign catalyst. Commercially, it is applied to the epoxidation of propylene with ethylbenzene hydroperoxide. The alcohol coproduct is dehydrated in a separate stage to styrene. The higher catalytic activity of Ti(IV)/SiO2 with respect to soluble Ti(IV) was attributed to the site isolation and fixation of Ti(IV) on the surface that prevents oligomerization to unreactive μ-oxo species. Formation of these μ-oxo species readily occurs with soluble Ti(IV) catalyst. 291 It also appears that the Lewis acidity of Ti(IV) is increased when on silica due to electron withdrawing by silanoxy ligands. Unfortunately, the Ti/SiO2 catalyst is deactivated by the presence of H2O,289 and consequently this catalyst is not efficient using H2O2 as oxidant. A similar problem arises from the amorphous titaniasilica mixed oxides prepared by the solution solgel procedure. Acid-catalyzed hydrolysis and polycondensation of Ti- and Si-alkoxides gives amorphous mixed oxides with Ti contents much higher than the 2.5 wt % achieved in the Ti(IV) grafted silica. These materials prepared by the solgel procedure, when dried by extraction with supercritical CO2, yields a mesoporous material with a very high surface area and isolated Ti(IV). 292 As described earlier for Shell catalysts, these materials are sensitive to water and are not suitable for working with H2O2, even when its hydrophobicity is increased. 293,294 Mixed Ti/Si oxides have been analyzed by EXAFS. This study has revealed that, while octahedral Ti coordination predominates at high Ti percentages, the amount of tetrahedral Ti increases as the Ti content decreases reaching a maximum between 10 and 20 mol % of Ti. 295 Lewis acid measurements and catalytic activity for 1-octene epoxidation with TBHP indicate that these two features are due to tetrahedral Ti. It is proposed that the coordinative unsaturated tetrahedral Ti can expand its coordination sphere by interaction with a Lewis base or with the hydroperoxide.295 Comparison of the performance of unmodified and dimethylaminopropyl-modified TiO2/SiO2 aerogels for α-isophorone epoxidation with TBHP establishes that the amine group diminishes the epoxidation activity of TiO2/SiO2, but it also eliminates the activity in acid-catalyzed side reactions, such as epoxide ring aperture and peroxide decomposition. 296 It was found that addition of methanol to an unmodified TiO2/SiO2 has a similar effect. These observations suggest that the electron donation by the alkylamino groups or methanol to the Ti active site (Lewis acid) suppresses its acidity and, thus, inhibiting acid-catalyzed reactions. On the other hand, the surface SiOH groups of TiO2/SiO2 have low activity for epoxide decomposition.296
5. Soluble Compounds as Models for the Active Sites in Solid Lewis Acid Oxidation Catalysts
In the way to the development of solid catalysts and understanding of the nature of their active sites, a line of research consists of the preparation of soluble molecules or metal complexes with well-defined molecular structure that could serve as models for the sites present in the solid. Normally, a solid catalyst contains a distribution of different catalytic sites varying in the coordination sphere or in the location of the site in the solid. It is believed that the intrinsic catalytic activity of a given metal atom can be different from others depending on the actual structure. Therefore, the optimum solid catalyst should contain the maximum density of the most active metal atoms while being devoid of others with lower activity and selectivity.
An example of the previous strategy is the preparation of titanosilsesquioxanes with different structures to test their catalytic activity in the epoxidation of olefins. 297-299 As it will be commented, solid titanosilicates are widely used as solid catalysts for the epoxidation of alkenes, hydroxylation of aromatics, oxidation of alcohols and amines, etc. The question is which types of titanium atoms are the most active. One approach to address the specific activity of sites with different coordination around the titanium atoms consists of crossing the structural information from characterization techniques such as EXAFS and XANES obtained for a series of solids with the catalytic tests of the series. However, due to the current low resolution of solid characterization techniques, the degree of uncertainty of this approach is always higher than the use of molecular titanosilsesquioxanes having a structure analogous to that of a cluster of titanosilicate.
In the way to solid epoxidation catalysts titanosilsesquioxanes, that are excellent homogeneous catalysts for epoxidation of olefins using TBHP, have been heterogeneized by adsorbing them in the pores of MCM-41. Previously, the MCM-41 was modified by silylation with Ph2SiCl2 to passivate the external surface. 300 The supported titanosilsesquioxane is claimed to be a reusable catalyst for epoxidation with tert-butylhydroperoxide.
Likewise, the influence of the coordination sphere of each active titanium site in titanogermanosilicate solids has been addressed by preparing soluble titanogermanosilsesquioxane and determining separately the activity of each compound and the influence of the presence of germanium. 301 Studying the specific reactivity of soluble complexes with different structures allows one to assess the intrinsic activity of each site. An additional refinement of this strategy is to prepare even the catalytically active oxo intermediate, such as the oxo complex. This allows the determination in homogeneous phase of the rate of elementary steps such as hydrogen abstraction or the transfer of an oxo group. An example of this approach has been the synthesis of a limited number of transition metal hydroxycarbonyls. 302-304 These metallic complexes are the reaction intermediates in various transition metal catalyzed reactions of CO and H2O including the oxidation of CO, the homogeneous water-gas shift, and the formation of metal hydrides. Although, as expected, β-elimination to give a metal hydride and CO2 is the usual mode of decomposition, it was demonstrated that the ease of this process is metal- and ligand-dependent. For trans-Pt(CO2H)(C6H6)(PEt3)2, an alternative route was identified in which CO and H2O are lost and a dinuclear complex having a bridging CO2 is formed (Scheme 27). 305 Scheme 27 Giving the potential of this methodology to understand the activity of solid catalysts, it can be anticipated that more effort would be dedicated to the synthesis of soluble mimics of solid active centers. This methodology relies on the fact that the reaction intermediates in solution are analogous to those present in the solids. However, immobilization of the active site may alter the reaction mechanism. Thus, the mechanism of the solution-phase homogeneous oxidation of pyrocatechol using cobalt or vanadium oxides was found to be different to that of the vapor-phase heterogeneous process. 306
6. Transition Metal Lewis Acids in the Walls of Mesoporous Molecular Sieves
Mesoporous molecular sieves and more specifically Ti-MCM-41 were first synthesized in 1994. 307,308 This material with surface areas  800 m2 g-1 showed the Ti to be tetrahedrally coordinated and isolated in the silica matrix. 309 The larger pore size of this mesoporous solid makes it more active as catalysts for reactions in which large substrates and reagents participate, even though its intrinsic activity measured for small reagents has been determined to be considerably lower than for TS-1 or Ti/Beta titanosilicates. Ti-MCM-41 was active and selective for carrying out the epoxidation of olefins with both TBHP and with H2O2, but the results were much better with TBHP. After this, other Ti-containing mesoporous molecular sieves such as HMS, MCM-48, MSU, UTD-1, and JDF-L1 have been synthesized.308,310-314 These are hydrophilic materials that adsorb H2O and due to the Lewis acidity of the Ti atoms opens the epoxides giving thiols. These diols become strongly adsorbed on the Ti sites leading not only to a decrease of epoxide selectivity but also to a decrease in catalyst activity. A thorough study of catalyst synthesis together with postsynthesis treatments was carried out by Corma et al. 315,316 They showed that by optimizing the synthesis of Ti-MCM-41 in the absence of TMAOH, and by the proper silylation of the surface of the resulting material very active and extremely selective epoxidation catalysts could be produced when using either TBHP or cumene hydroperoxide as oxidizing agents, with feeds that contain even 2 wt % of H2O (Figure 1). These catalysts offer great promise for epoxidation of propylene using organic peroxides, owing to their extremely high selectivity to the epoxide and the very low formation of diols, that minimize deactivation and increase the catalyst life.
Figure 1 Influence of the silylation (as degree of surface coverage) of Ti/MCM-41 on the conversion (a) and selectivity (b) for the cyclohexene epoxidation with TBHP (Reprinted with permission from ref 315. Copyright 1998 Chemical Society London).
It has been reported that Ti/MCM-41 in which Lewis acid sites are also present can act as a bifunctional catalyst in the one-step conversion of α-pinene to campholenic aldehyde, promoting the epoxidation of the CC double bond and the subsequent rearrangement of the resulting pinene epoxide with ring aperture. 317 Mesoporous molecular sieves with transition metals other than Ti (Zr, V, Sn) have also been prepared. They are active for oxidation reactions with organic peroxides and H2O2, but the possibility of metal leaching should be carefully addressed in each case.123,318-325 Nb-containing MCM-41 has been modified with ammonium and copper cations and tested for several oxidation reactions including NO decomposition, selective oxidation of NH3 by NO, hydrosulfurization of methanol, and oxidation of thioethers with hydrogen peroxide to sulfoxides. 326 The same Nb/MCM-41 solid after ion exchange with ammonium and dehydroxylation exhibits Lewis acidity and is able to catalyze the reaction of methanol with hydrogen sulfide to form methanethiol.326 On the other hand, although Cu2+ ions adsorbed on Nb/MCM-41 show a higher reducibility as compared with Al/MCM-41, this does not lead to a higher activity of Nb/MCM-41 for the catalytic NO decomposition.326 Vanadium-containing MCM-41 has equally been prepared and found to exhibit catalytic activity toward the gas-phase partial oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde. 327 The solid is stable under reaction conditions at 350 C. The main active site is proposed to be isolated tetrahedral vanadium atoms coordinated to surrounding oxygen anions, which is the predominant site at vanadium percentages below 0.41 wt %.327 Enantioselective epoxidation of allylic alcohols using titanium complexes of diethyl tartrate175-178,328 has been a significant achievement in asymmetric catalysis, that paved the way to enantioselective epoxidation in general. Some work has been carried out trying to obtain Ti-containing solids for the heterogeneous version of allylic alcohol epoxidation. Thus, epoxidation of allylic alcohols with TBHP can be catalyzed by titanium-containing pillared montmorillonites. 329 The pillars are polymeric Ti cations formed by partial hydrolysis of TiCl4 with HCl. The interlayer distance, specific surface area, and thermal stability of the resulting pillared clay depend on the pH of the pillaring solution. For a H+/Ti ratio of 0.24, the Ti-pillared clay shows a basal spacing of 2.6 nm, a specific surface area of 316 m2 g-1 and does not collapse at temperatures below 500 C.329 This titanium-containing clay catalyzes the oxidation of (E)-2-hexen-1-ol with TBHP in the presence of diethyl tartrate with 50% yield, when it has been activated by calcining the solid in air at 500 C and the reaction is conducted at 23 C.329 This yield is comparable to that reported for the same allylic alcohol using polymer supported Ti(IV) as catalyst.329
7. Transition Metal Lewis Acids in the Framework of Microporous Molecular Sieves
a.TiSilicalite. An important breakthrough in the use of Lewis acids as heterogeneous environmentally friendly catalysts was the discovery of the activity of Ti-silicalite (TS-1) as a catalyst for a series of useful oxidation reactions using H2O2 as oxidant. 330-333 TS-1 is a zeolite with MFI structure whose topology is formed by a two-channel system with diameters 0.53 × 0.56 and 0.51 × 0.51 nm, respectively. Ti was incorporated in the framework of silicalite as isolated tetrahedral Ti(IV), and it appears that the site isolation resulting from the incorporation during the synthesis of the molecular sieves produces the most promising type of solid Lewis acids oxidation catalysts for liquid-phase operations. These Ti-containing silicalites should be, in principle, more stable toward leaching taking into account the lower accessibility of the TiO bonds. On top of this, Ti-zeolites have adsorption properties that can be tuned from the point of view of their hydrophobicityhydrophilicity, allowing a certain control on the proportions of reactants with different polarities within the pores. Thus, owing to the silica framework with little number of defects, the TS-1 is a hydrophobic catalyst that can use H2O2 as oxidant. Using this environmentally friendly oxidant, reactions such as oxidation of alcohols, epoxidation of linear olefins, hydroxylation of aromatics, ammoximation of cyclohexanone, oxidation of alkanes to alcohols and ketones, oxidation of amines, oxidation of sulfur-containing compounds, and oxidation of ethers, among others, have been carried out selectively with TS-1.114,334-340 A summary of the reactions catalyzed by TS-1 is given in Figure 2.
Figure 2 Oxidation reactions catalyzed by TS-1.
The proper design of TS-1 catalysts involves the introduction during the synthesis of Ti in framework positions. A necessary requirement for the successful synthesis of TS-1 is to carry it out in the absence of significant amounts of alkali metal ions to avoid the precipitation of alkali titanates during the synthesis.
Different synthesis routes have been proposed using various Si and Ti precursors, and several structure directing agents (SDA) and mineralizers. A summary of those is given in Figure 3.
Figure 3 Summary of the synthetic procedures to obtain TS-1.
Since the first moment, the exceptional oxidation properties of TS-1 were related to the presence of isolated tetrahedral Ti(IV) in framework positions, since silicalite was not active and TiO2 (anatase) produced the decomposition of H2O2. 341 However, it is not easy to prove unequivocally the incorporation of Ti in framework positions since the low Ti contents (12 wt %) make impossible the determination by XRD. The importance of these catalysts has triggered a large effort on characterization, and a combination of XRD, IR, UVVisible, XPS, and EXAFS/XANES spectroscopies have confirmed the presence and the amount of TI(IV) framework sites. A good review on this has been published recently. 342 More recently, electrochemical and photochemical techniques have also been used to address this issue. 343-345 On the basis of the above characterization techniques, two structures differing in the presence of titanyl groups (TiO) or tetrahedral Ti have been proposed for the isolated Ti(IV) species (Scheme 28).
Scheme 28 The presence of titanyl groups is consistent with the observation of a band at 960 cm-1 in the IR spectrum of TS-1. However, other pieces of evidence do not confirm this assignment. For instance, the UVVisible spectrum of TS-1 does not show a band between 25000 and 35000 cm-1 characteristic of the TiO group. On the other hand, the position of the 960 cm-1 IR band is not modified by D2O treatment, but it shifts to lower frequencies with the H217O exchange. 346 Furthermore, the intensity of this band is not affected by the treatment of the sample with SO2.14 Thus, even if it is now generally accepted that Ti is tetrahedrally coordinated with framework oxygens, Sinclair and Catlow do not rule out the formation of TiO groups under the reaction conditions. 347 These titanyl groups would be formed by hydrolysis of the TiOSi bond in the presence of H2O.
The geometry of the Ti centers has been successfully determined by means of UVVisible and EXAFS/XANES spectroscopies. Indeed, the dehydrated TS-1 shows a UVVisible band at 48000 cm-1, that is not present in silicalite, and which is associated to charge-transfer processes localized in isolated Ti atoms in tetrahedral coordination. 348 The presence of polymeric species of hexacoordinated Ti gives rise to an absorption band at 42000 cm-1, while anatase or rutile have absorption bands at 3000035000 cm-1. 349 The XANES spectrum of TS-1 and its comparison with other Ti compounds in which the coordination of Ti is well established has revealed the presence in dehydrated TS-1 samples of tetrahedrally coordinated Ti. 350,351 The incorporation of Ti in the MFI structure produces an expansion of the framework and an increase in the tension around the Ti center owing to the larger [TiO4] size compared to [SiO4] tetrahedra. The Ti(IV) can interact with H2O producing the hydrolysis of one or more TiOSi bonds, which results in a local relaxation of the structure at the Ti sites. It is important to point out that for acting as a catalytic site, the Ti(IV) in TS-1 has to interact with reactants. Thus, to be able to increase its coordination number during the adsorption process, Ti should move from the original framework position to another more external and relaxed in which the SiOTi bonds will be more polarized and elongated with respect to the normal values. The ability of Ti in TS-1 to increase the coordination sphere without becoming separated from the zeolite framework is a key point for the special catalytic properties of Ti in TS-1 and more generally Ti in zeolites.
Following the chemistry of the Ti(IV) complexes in liquid phase, H2O2 acts as a bidentate ligand (η2-O2) replacing other ligands to form very stable metallodioxirane or peroxo complexes (Scheme 29). The organic hydroperoxides form a peroxocomplex analogous to the hydroperoxy species shown in Scheme 29.
Scheme 29 The interaction of H2O2 with the Ti centers of Ti-zeolites generates a UVVisible band at 26000 cm-1 which has been assigned to a charge-transfer interaction between the hydroperoxide (OOH) ligand and Ti(IV). 352 Nevertheless, the [Ti(O2)F5]3- ion also shows an absorption band at 26000 cm-1 which can be associated to the O22-  Ti4+ charge transfer. Thus, it becomes difficult to distinguish between hydroperoxy and titanodioxirane based on the UVVisible spectra. Some authors have considered a tetrahedral metallodioxirane species as the reaction intermediate on TS-1 (Scheme 29). However, this species cannot explain the effect of acids, bases, and solvents on the reaction kinetics, nor the high activity of TS-1 with diluted solutions of H2O2 in protic media. 353 Nevertheless, Talsi claims 354 that with the adequate ligands, the Ti peroxo complexes (Ti(O2)(OEt)2L2) can be active in oxidation reactions and the acidbase and solvent effects could be explained as a function of its coordination to the tetrahedral titanodioxirane species. In presence of H2O2, TS-1 behaves as a Brnsted acid catalyzing the opening of the epoxides by addition of H2O or alcohol.346 This fact suggests that the active species involves a tetrahedral hydroperoxy type ligand (Scheme 29). On the other hand, the stability achieved by the pentacyclic structure (Scheme 30) makes possible the acid dissociation.
Scheme 30 The dependence of the reaction rate on the nature of the solvent seems to indicate that a molecule of solvent is involved with the active species.353 Moreover, the cyclic hydroperoxy species is similar to the intermediates proposed in oxidation reactions with organic peracids and the transition metal complexes of groups IVVI, with H2O2 or organic hydroperoxides. b.Large Pore Ti-Zeolites. Owing to the relatively small pore diameter of the 10-member ring Ti-zeolites synthesized, i.e., TS-1, TS-2 (MELS structure) and ZSM-48, 355-357 efforts have been made to synthesize large pore 12-member ring Ti zeolites. Among them the incorporation of Ti by direct synthesis has been demonstrated for BEA (Ti-Beta), MTW (Ti-ZSM-12), ISV (Ti-ITQ-7), and MWW (Ti-MCM-22).
Ti-Beta can be prepared by several synthetic procedures. The first Ti-Beta was prepared in basic medium, in the presence of Al in the synthesis gel. 358,359 The resulting material was active and selective for the oxidation of olefins, alcohols, alkanes, and organic sulfur compounds and hydroxylation of phenol with H2O2 or organic peroxides. 360-362 By means of IR and UVVisible spectroscopy, XRD, thermal analysis, XPS, EXAFS-XANES, the state of Ti in the sample of Ti-Al-Beta was established. 363 In the calcined and dehydrated sample the coordination of Ti is four, and in this coordination state Ti is linked to four OSi groups. When the calcined zeolite was rehydrated a TiOSi bond becomes hydrolyzed, giving a tetrahedral species with a TiOH group and a silanol group. This TiOH species can be further hydrated leading to pentacoordinated Ti. When the characterization results for TiAlBeta and TS-1 and TS-2 were compared, it was shown that in the calcined and dehydrated samples a similar coordination of Ti occurs. While TiAlBeta was an active oxidation catalyst, the presence of Al(IV) generated Brnsted acid sites that have, for some reactions, a negative impact on selectivity. For instance, during the catalytic epoxidation of olefins, the resulting epoxides undergo acid-catalyzed ring opening to afford diols and/or rearrangement products. However, the Brnsted acidity could be neutralized by treatment with alkali metal acetates. 364 While in some cases the preparation of bifunctional catalysts involving a proton and a Ti site can be of interest as in the production of furanes and pyranes derived from linalool, 365 in most cases the epoxide is the desired product. Therefore, there was the need for synthesizing TiBeta free of TIII elements. Following a cogel synthetic procedure, samples of Ti-Beta with very high Si/Al ratios were synthesized and an increase in turnover number and selectivity to epoxide during epoxidation of 1-hexene and activity in the hydroxylation of benzene with H2O2 was observed when increasing the Si/Al ratio. 366,367 The following step toward the synthesis of Al-free Ti-Beta samples was given by starting with very small Al free seeds of Beta zeolite and using them to grow Al-free Ti-Beta. 368 A similar procedure but using deboronated boron Beta seeds and di(cyclohexylmethyl) dimethylammonium hydroxide as structure directing agent (SDA) was used to prepare TIII free Ti-Beta. 369 The resulting sample was active as epoxidation as well as Lewis acid catalyst for the gas-phase MeerweinPonndorfVerley reactions. 370 Finally, Al free Ti-Beta has been synthesized in basic medium using 4,4-trimethylenebis(N-benzyl-N-methylpiperidinium) dihydroxide or di-(cyclohexylmethyl)-dimethylammonium hydroxide as SDA. 371-373 The above SDA are difficult to synthesize and it would be of interest to obtain Al-free Ti-Beta using the commercially available TEA hydroxide as SDA. This has been achieved by using F- as silica mineralizing agent. 374 It has to be pointed out that while Ti-Beta synthesized in OH- media resulted in samples with many internal defects (silanol groups) and therefore with a more hydrophilic zeolite, the synthesis in F- media gave Ti-Beta samples that were highly hydrophobic that gave the best turnover and epoxide selectivity during the epoxidation of olefins (see Table 2). 375 Table 2. Influence of Al Content and Internal Defects on the Activity and Selectivity of Ti-Beta for the Epoxidation of 1-hexene Using Methanol as Solventa chemical composition synthetic method internal defects Si/Al wt% TiO2 TOFmol/ (molTi.h) epoxide selectivity (%) firstsynthesis yes 123 4.8 14.9 14.6 cogelprocedure yes 300 4.7 20.8 25.9 dealuminated seeds yes  2.5 28.6 75.4 F-media no  2.5 32.2 96.4 aTaken from ref 375.
It becomes clear that in an oxidation process that requires the simultaneous presence of nonpolar (1-hexene) and polar (H2O2 aq) reactants within the zeolite pores, the hydrophobicityhydrophilicity of the catalyst will play an important role. In the case of TS-1 the hydrophobicity of the final sample is influenced by the presence of nonframework titanium.376 Nevertheless, even for hydrophobic Ti-Beta its activity and selectivity are still lower than those for TS-1 for molecules that can diffuse in TS-1. Nevertheless, Ti-Beta gives a higher activity for bulkier reactants. This means that besides hydrophobicity other structural factors also play an important role. In this respect, one should take into account that in solidliquid-phase processes, diffusion can be in many cases a limiting step, and consequently, a catalyst factor to be considered, besides pore diameter, is the zeolite crystal size. The smaller the crystallite size, the faster will be the rate of diffusion for molecules that can diffuse through the pores. Ti content may influence the zeolite crystal size, decreasing this when increasing Ti content in TS-1.377,378 It has been found that the synthesis variable that has a stronger impact on Ti-zeolite crystal size is the nature of the mineralizing agent. This has been studied for both TS-1 and Ti-Beta, and it is shown that synthesis in F- media generally produces larger crystallites than the synthesis in OH- media. 379-381 The intrinsic acidity of the Ti Lewis sites in a particular structure and even in different T positions of a given zeolite structure can also influence the final activity of the catalyst. A theoretical study on the Lewis acidity of Ti on the different crystallographic positions in silicalite and Beta has concluded 382 that Ti will not necessarily occupy framework positions in a random distribution. Moreover, differences on the Lewis acidity of Ti are expected depending on the different crystallographic positions. It has to be pointed out that, in general, the calculated Lewis acidity of Ti in the Beta structure is higher than in TS-1. Experimentally, the acidity of Ti-zeolites has been studied by means of IR spectroscopy 383 volumetry and microcalorimetry 384,385 of adsorption of weak (CO) and stronger bases (NH3, pyridine, CD3CN). In the particular case of TS-1, the spectrum of adsorbed pyridine shows bands at 1605, 1490, 1445 cm-1 associated to adsorption on Lewis acid sites, 386 but not the band at 1545 cm-1 which corresponds to the protonated pyridine. The presence of Lewis acid sites in TS-1 and TS-2 has also been confirmed by other techniques, 387 which also include their activity for Mukaiyama and Michael additions, and MeerweinPonndorfVerley reactions that are typically catalyzed by Lewis acids.340,370,388 In the case of Ti-Beta zeolites, the IR spectra of pyridine adsorbed on two samples of Ti-Beta, one synthesized in OH- and the other synthesized in F- media have been recorded.379 The Al-free Ti-Beta synthesized in OH- media with many internal defects and which has a certain hydrophilic character shows bands at 1607, 1490, and 1447 cm-1 associated to pyridine coordinated with Lewis acids, and which are the same bands observed previously for TS-1. With the more hydrophobic samples synthesized in F- media, the same bands but with a lower intensity are observed. Since none of these IR bands were observed with the pure silica Beta zeolite, we concluded that they are associated with pyridine coordinated with Ti.
The nature of the Lewis acid sites in Ti-zeolites is still a matter of discussion. Some authors believe that the observed Lewis acidity in Ti-zeolites is due to the presence of Ti(IV) in framework positions, 386,389 while others claim that the Lewis acidity is associated to Ti4+ ions within framework defects. We can make use of these hypotheses to explain differences in the intensity of the IR bands. Thus, since Ti in defects would be more accessible to pyridine than Ti incorporated in framework positions, one may assume that Ti-Beta synthesized in OH- media should have a larger concentration of Ti in defect sites than the sample synthesized in F- media. On the other hand, taking into account that pyridine was desorbed at 150 C and 10-4 Torr before recording the IR spectra, and also that the two samples have the same Ti content, one can conclude that the Ti-Beta synthesized in OH- media has stronger Lewis sites than those for the sample prepared in F- media. The observed differences in acid strength could explain the larger extent of epoxide ring opening that occurs in absence of H2O2, with Ti-Beta synthesized in OH- media. On the other hand, when in the presence of H2O2, it can be assumed that the epoxide ring opening occurs in Ti-zeolites through the transition state shown in Scheme 31.
Scheme 31 In this case, the different Lewis acidity in the two samples can also explain the higher epoxide ring opening of Ti-Beta OH-, in methanol and H2O2. Indeed, the higher the acid strength of the Ti Lewis sites, the higher will be the inductive effect and the acidity of the proton of the hydroperoxo group coordinated to the metallic atom.
It becomes then clear that one should not discuss about Ti-Beta and any other Ti-zeolite without taking into account factors such as Ti-content, synthesis procedure, and their implications on hydrophobicity/hydrophilicity and acid strength/Ti-distribution.
Even if most of the work in Ti-zeolites has been done with TS-1, TS-2, and Ti-Beta, other large pore Ti-zeolites have been prepared by direct synthesis. Among them we can mention Ti-ZSM-12, Ti-ITQ-7 and Ti-MCM-22. Ti-ZSM-12, a unidimensional zeolite, has been described using hexamethylene-bis-(diethylmethylammonium hydroxide) as SDA. 390 Ti-ITQ-7 is a tridimensional large pore zeolite in which small amounts of Ti were introduced with low efficiency. 391,392 A much more efficient synthesis that allows the introduction of higher Ti contents and with higher intrinsic activity has been described and involves the synthesis of Ti-Ge-ITQ-7 zeolite. 393-395 Very recently, Ti-MWW (Ti-MCM-22) has been prepared by direct synthesis and after acid leaching of part of the Ti, the resulting sample shows high activity and selectivity for oxidation of small molecules. 396,397 Finally, a delaminated Ti-ferrierite named as Ti-ITQ-6 has been synthesized with external surface areas  600 m2 g-1. 398 This material can carry out oxidation reactions with H2O2 and organic peroxides. Moreover, the delaminated accessible structure allows the reaction of bulky organic reactants that can hardly diffuse in the internal pores of zeolites.
Other large pore zeolites such as FAU, MAZ, LTL and delaminated ITQ-2 zeolite, 399 MOR, and MWW396 have been prepared by postsynthesis methods.
8. Mechanism of Electrophilic Oxidations Catalyzed by Ti-Zeolites
To elucidate a reaction mechanism in heterogeneous catalysis, it helps very much to stablish analogies with homogeneous systems, for which reaction mechanisms at the molecular level are easier to study. If one applies this methodology to electrophilic oxidations, some trends appear clear and they are summarized as follows: 400 (a) Complexes that catalyze the nonradical epoxidation of simple alkenes with H2O2 or alkyl hydroperoxides are almost always Lewis acids.
Scheme 32 (b) Complexes containing a transition metal with an empty d-shell, as for instance Mo(VI), Ti(IV), Re(VII) in CH3ReO3, are effective Lewis acids.
(c) In all known peroxo complexes of the group IVVII transition metals, the peroxo moiety is bonded side-on.
(d) Besides a three-membered ring (metallodioxirane structures), oxygen can be transferred smoothly from five-membered ring structures.
(e) Metal-catalyzed epoxidation and epoxidation by peracids experience similar solvent effects: polar solvents enhance the reaction rate except for strongly coordinating or protic solvents which slow or completely inhibit the reaction.
In the case of oxidations using Ti-zeolites, any valid mechanism should also consider the effects of solvents, and the fact that the active species possesses Brnsted acidity and ion exchange properties. The reaction mechanisms for three types of important reactions occurring with Ti-zeolites are described in the following sections. a.Olefin Epoxidation. Olefins are epoxidized in the presence of Ti-zeolites using diluted H2O2 as oxidant. The absence of products derived from radical epoxidations (allylic alcohols) and the stereospecificity of the reaction (cis-olefins produce cis-epoxides) indicate the nonradical nature of the epoxidations occurring on Ti-zeolites. The different reaction mechanisms proposed for the epoxidation of olefins with H2O2 with Ti-zeolites are indicated in Scheme 32.341,353,401 By analogy with soluble complexes of Mo(VI), W(VI), and Ti(IV) mechanisms a and b in Scheme 32 imply an electrophillic attack of titanodioxirane and hydroperoxy species to the olefin. Mechanism b in Scheme 32 can occur through two intermediates, and there is discussion about which oxygen is transferred to the olefin. Mechanism c in Scheme 32 implies the direct coordination of the double bond to the Ti center. However, it appears that in the presence of H2O, alcohols, and other oxygenated molecules it is not very probable that Ti(IV) could coordinate with an olefin that is a much weaker coordinating ligand.
In contrast to homogeneously catalyzed epoxidation in which the reaction rate is mainly governed by electronic factors, steric factors having only a minor influence, in the case of epoxidation catalyzed by Ti-zeolites, steric factors such as the bulkiness of substituents attached to the CC double bond can sometimes dominate.353,402,403 b.Alcohol Oxidations. As was said above, the interaction of Ti centers and H2O2 in the presence of a solvent of the ROH type can generate a five-member cyclic structure that can be considered the active species. Taking this into account, it may very well occur that in the presence of other alcohols similar structures are formed. These type of structures have an electrophilic character owing to the presence of a partial positive charge on the oxygen situated far away from the Ti and which is activated by the formation of the hydrogen bond. However, the oxidation of alcohols requires activation of the CH bond, and, consequently, the reaction intermediate should have a structure in where the CH bond is weakened.
In the case of alcohol oxidations by W complexes, Jacobson et al. 404 have proposed the species shown in Scheme 33 as potential intermediate.
Scheme 33 In this intermediate, the heterolytic rupture of the CH occurs concurrently with the nucleophilic attack of the hydride ion on the most distant oxygen. Taking the above structure as a model, Esposito et al. 405 have proposed a similar intermediate for the oxidation of alcohols with H2O2 with TS-1 (Scheme 34).
Scheme 34 A radical mechanism having as key intermediate the structure shown in Scheme 35 has also been proposed for the oxidation of alcohols. 406 Scheme 35 In both types of mechanisms, the alcohol coordinates to the Ti before hydride or hydrogen abstraction takes place. This can explain the observed differences in the rate of oxidation between 2-pentanol and 3-pentanol (the latter reacting 10 times more slowly) in the TS-1,406 and consequently none of the two mechanisms can be rejected. Nevertheless, the high selectivities to aldehydes favor the two-electron process. Otherwise, aldehydes would undergo a fast oxidation to carboxylic acid derivatives. It is interesting to notice that alcohol oxidation by neutral or anionic tungsten or molybdenum peroxo complexes is also widely accepted as a two-electron process. 407 The molybdenum picolinate N-oxide complex MoO(O2)2(pico)- is especially selective to aldehydes. It is not clear to what extent heterolytic alcohol oxidation by peroxo complexes should still be considered an electrophilic reaction, since it is commonly said that less electrophillic reagents are needed to effect alcohol oxidation compared to alkene epoxidation. c.Alkanes Oxidation. TS-1 is an active zeolite for the gas-phase oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propene. 408 For this medium pore titanosilicate, the reaction takes place on the outer surface of the solid particles on Lewis acid sites. Sulfation of the catalyst increases the acidity of external Lewis acid sites and results in an increase in the catalytic activity. Addition of water also causes an increase in the selectivity of the process, probably due to the competitive adsorption on the active sites. The maximum conversion was 17% with a selectivity to propene of 74%.408 It was found independently by two groups 409,410 that TS-1 was able to oxidize alkanes to secondary alcohols and ketones. To explain such results, Huybrechts et al. proposed the radical mechanism, which is very similar to that proposed for oxidation with vanadium complexes (Scheme 36). 411 Scheme 36 A radical mechanism for this reaction was supported by the fact that the oxidation of cis-1,3-dimethylcyclopentane on TS-1 proceeds without any stereoselectivity. 412 The formed radicals, however, have a very short lifetime or their movements are highly restricted in the pores of TS-1 since their rearrangement is not observed. A radical mechanism was also consistent with the low reactivity of the terminal carbons. On the other hand, a radical mechanism for oxidation of alkanes implies the formation of Ti3+OO• radicals, that require the reduction of Ti4+, something that is improbable owing to the low redox potential of [Ti4+/Ti3+] (0.06 eV). Nevertheless, if the energy of formation of the OH of the TiOOH is high and comparable to the CH energy, the radical mechanism could take place. 413 Also at the relatively high temperature used by Huybrechts et al., 409,414 the participation of radicals and molecular oxygen in the process can be important.
It is remarkable that Clerici, 410,415 by working under milder conditions, obtained somewhat different results than Huybrechts et al. (see Table 3).
Table 3. n-Hexane Oxidation with H2O2 on TS-1 ref Huybrechts etal.414 Clerici410 solvent acetone (twophases) methanol (onephase) temperature,C 100 55 H2O2conversion(%) >90 98 selbasedonconverted H2O2(%) 70 91 (2-ol+2-one)/ 3-ol+3-one) 1.1 2.3 Clerici observed that the addition of radical chain inhibitor or chloroalkanes did not influence reaction rates or product distributions.410 Following this, a free-radical chain mechanism can be considered less likely, at least, under the milder conditions used by Clerici.410 Evidence for the electrophillic nature of the process was obtained from the oxidation of 1- chlorohexane and methyl heptanoate, in which oxygenation occurred preferentially on the remote secondary CH bond.409 It is not yet completely clear what the mechanism of the oxygen insertion reaction is, and whether it consists of two consecutive one electron steps or a single two electron step. It should be taken into account that reactions involving a hydrogen abstraction step followed by a fast recombination of radicals in a so-called solvent cage are known. 416 Such solvent cage reactions are also not affected by radical chain inhibitors or chloroalkanes. This solvent cage mechanism would be supported in the case of TS-1 in which a large isotope effect (KH/KD = 4.1) was observed.410
9. Other Transition Metal Containing Zeolites and Other Microporous Molecular Sieves
The very interesting catalytic results obtained with Ti-zeolites acted as a booster for the synthesis of zeolites containing other transition metals within framework positions. Similarities between vanadium and titanium in their catalytic peroxo chemistry have influenced the synthesis of vanadium silicalites. The known coordination chemistry of vanadium does not rule out their ability to occupy tetrahedral lattice positions in a silicate. However, the usual coordination geometry of vanadium (IV) is square pyramidal or distorted octahedral. Compounds containing tetrahedral vanadium (IV) are rare. Tetrahedral coordination is also rare for vanadium (III), one example being the VCl4- ion that occurs in some salts. Nevertheless, it has been claimed the synthesis of vanadium-containing MFI and MEL silicalites starting from V(III) or V(IV) salts. 417 It has been reported346 that vanadium-containing zeolites and silicalites prepared using VCl3 underwent a structural collapse leading to the formation of crystobalite after calcination at 550 C in air. This did not occur if the calcination was done in H2 atmosphere. The structure collapse can be due to the oxidation of V(III) or V(IV) species very well dispersed in the zeolite matrix. Stable materials were obtained when the synthesis was done in the absence of sodium, using vanadyl(IV) sulfate and avoiding oxidation of V(IV) during gel preparation and crystallization. 418,419 Other zeolite structures such as ZSM-48 and V-NCL-1 have been synthesized, and the resulting materials were stable after several calcinations in air. 420,421 The existence of VOSi bonds in vanadium-containing zeolites has been postulated from the presence of the IR and Raman band at 960 cm-1, as well as by a direct correlation between vanadium content and unit cell expansion. 422 Adsorption of NH3, pyridine, and acetonitrile shows the presence of Lewis and Brnsted acids in V-MFI and V-MEL that were not present in the pure silica zeolites. 423,424 ESR spectroscopy gives information about the state of the vanadium in the zeolite. Thus, ESR spectra of V(IV)-containing samples show anisotropic hyperfine splitting caused by the 51V nucleus with or without the presence of an underlying broad singlet. The singlet is thought to arise from vanadium-rich phases or oligomeric species, while the hyperfine pattern originates from isolated ions. The values of the ESR parameters fall within the range reported for square pyramidal vanadyl complexes in an oxygen environment. However, vanadyl species cannot be located at a regular tetrahedral framework site and they may exist as a framework satellite.
In situ reflectance spectroscopy has been used for studying the coordination environment of vanadium during the synthesis of VAPO-5. 42551V NMR spectroscopy is also useful for elucidating the local symmetry of V(V) species. This technique shows that in most calcined vanadium silicalites, V(V) is present in tetrahedral coordination. 426,427 It appears then that it is possible to prepare vanadium-containing zeolites in which isolated vanadium species may be connected to the framework at defect sites forming framework satellites. These vanadium atoms are accessible to molecules that can enter into the pores, and can apparently change its coordination and oxidation state reversibly.
Chromium would be an interesting Lewis acid that could carry out oxidation reactions if it were tetrahedrally incorporated in zeolites. It has been claimed isomorphous framework silicon substitutions by chromium in MFI structure. 428-430 However, no effect of chromium on unit cell parameters were found, indicating that chromium species are not really in the framework or the efficiency of chromium incorporation in the framework is very low.. 431,432 Zn, however, has been incorporated in Beta zeolite, and it occupies preferentially three-member rings. This material presents Brnsted acidity owing to charge compensation.
In the case of AlPO4 molecular sieves isomorphous substitutions with cobalt, vanadium, iron, chromium, manganese, and zinc have been well documented. Aluminophosphates molecular sieves containing Si, V, Co, and Mn have been synthesized using n-dipropylamine as a template. 433 The presence of these elements in framework positions considerably influences the physical and catalytic properties of the materials. By using the methylation of toluene and isomerization of m-xylene as test reactions, it was found that the product distribution of Si or metal substituted AlPO-11 is similar to that of zeolites.433 AlPO-11 not containing any heteroatom fails to exhibit any activity for these reactions, although it shows activity for less-demanding isobutanol dehydration. This study concludes that metal substitution on AlPO-11 introduces additional stronger acid sites by replacing framework Al3+ by divalent metal atoms. These sites are stronger than in the case of the Si-containing AlPO, but much weaker than those of zeolites.433 On the other hand, metal substituted AlPOs also exhibit activity in the hydrogenation of nitrobenzene and oxidation of benzylic alcohols, thus, demonstrating the redox properties imparted to the solid by the presence of framework metal sites.433 Isomorphic substitution of Al by Mn(II), Co(II), and Zn(II) in AlPO4-31 has been confirmed by 31P NMR spectroscopy. 434 In the case of MnAPO-31 UVVis and XANES spectra revealed the partial oxidation of some Mn atoms into Mn(III) in calcined samples, introducing redox centers in the solid. The presence of Brnsted and Lewis acid sites was studied by ammonia adsorption/desorption titration and the relative strength follows the order MnAPO-31 > CoAP-31 > ZnAPO-31. In contrast, Ti(IV) is not incorporated into the framework and the presence of TiO2 anatase was observed.434 Low levels of Co(II) can be incorporated into the framework of AlPOs substituting aluminum on tetrahedral positions as shown by UVVisible, near-IR, ESR, and 31P NMR techniques and EXAFS.305,435-441,442 During calcination in the presence of O2, tetrahedral cobalt (III) and strongly distorted tetrahedral cobalt (II) species are formed in CoAPOs. The oxidized species can be reduced back to tetrahedral cobalt (II) by calcination in H2.
A UVVis and FT-IR spectroscopic study combined with the use of probe adsorbates has suggested that there are two types of cobalt atoms in CoAPO-18. 443,444 Besides tetrahedrally coordinated framework Co atoms, there are coordinatively unsaturated Co(II) Lewis acid centers. Approximately one-half of the tetrahedral framework Co atoms form bridged hydroxy Co(OH)P groups that introduce Brnsted acidity to the solid and that are able to undergo oxidation to framework Co(III). 445 A well-crystalyzed sample of CoAPO-37 having faujasite structure has been prepared. 446 The incorporation of Co in the framework introduces Brnsted and Lewis acid sites as shown by pyridine titration recorded by IR spectroscopy. Catalytic tests reveal that CoAPO-37 has activity for 1-butene and m-xylene isomerization, indicating that the acid sites of CoAPO-37 are stronger than those of SAPO-37 and similar to those of Y zeolites.446 VAPO-5 has been synthesized with well-dispersed monomeric vanadyl(IV) species which were oxidized to vanadium(V) after calcination in air at 773 K. The presence of well-dispersed, immobile vanadium species was taken as evidence of the location of the metal in framework positions. 447,448 Those authors assumed, on the basis of elemental analysis, that vanadium(IV) substituted phosphorus (V). However, Rigutto et al. 449 synthesized VAPO-5 in F- media using vanadyl(IV) sulfate as the vanadium source. By means of 51V NMR spectroscopy, it has been shown that at low vanadium contents the dominant species in calcined materials is a square pyramidal or distorted octahedral vanadyl(V) species, consistent with a phosphate environment.Chromium has also been introduced in AlPO4's in octahedral positions and/or as framework connected ions. Diffuse reflectance UVVisible spectroscopy seems to indicate that octahedral chromium(III) are present in as-synthesized CrAPO-5 which is oxidized to tetrahedral chromium(VI) upon calcination. 450,451 The incorporation of Cr3+ in AlPO4-16 framework is also uncertain, and two species are observed: clusters similar to the bulk Cr2O3 oxide and isolated Cr3+ ions in strongly distorted octahedral coordination. 435 Cr-substituted aluminophosphates (CrAPO-5 and CrAPO-11) in which chromium atoms occupy internal framework positions have been hydrothermally synthesized and found selective and reusable solids for the catalytic oxidation of benzylic and cyclic alcohols using oxygen or tert-butyl hydroperoxide as oxidants. 452 Evidence was provided in support that the oxidation essentially takes place within the micropores through a mechanism involving a oxochromium alkoxide. This active species undergoes a heterolytically β-hydrogen elimination followed by reoxidation of Cr(IV) to Cr(VI).452 Using tert-butyl hydroperoxide, high selectivities of the oxidizing reagent (>88%) and substrate (>89%) toward the ketone were observed. The CrAPO-5 catalyzed oxidation of alcohols with O2 gives also the corresponding ketones with 7297% selectivity at 2678% conversion when only 10 mol % of tert-butyl hydroperoxide was added.452 A study aimed at characterizing and determining the activity of framework Cr atoms incorporated into silicoaluminophosphate molecular sieves has been undertaken. 453 Compared to a catalyst in which Cr has been supported on SAPO-11, XPS and diffuse reflectance UVVis spectroscopy indicates that approximately 70% of Cr atoms are in the +VI oxidation state. After hydrogen reduction at 550 C, the distribution of Cr atoms was approximately 40% as Cr(VI) and 60% as Cr(III). This reduction decreases the number of strong Brnsted and strong and medium Lewis acid sites of CrAPSO-11 by a factor of 2. These results seem to indicate that partially unsaturated Cr(VI) in the neighborhood of POH groups may act as strong Lewis sites and may generate strong Brnsted acid sites by Lewis enhancement of Brnsted acidity. In comparison, the main Cr species present in a sample of Cr-supported SAPO-11 was Cr(III) and reduction was easier. All the available data support as previously reported by Chen and Sheldon 454 that Cr atoms are incorporated into the framework of the molecular sieve.453 In general, it can be said that the thermal stability of the metal ALPOs (MeAPOs) is lower than for zeolites and upon calcination a significant portion of the metal can migrate from framework to nonframework positions. The formation of nonframework metal can be complete upon succesive cycles of calcination. The presence of nonframework metals favors the leaching of the metal when the catalytic oxidation is carried out in the liquid phase.A titanoaluminophosphate in which the titanium atoms occupy octahedral framework positions has been obtained by adapting the hydrothermal synthesis of VPI-5 aluminophosphate in the presence of di-n-butylamine. 455 Crystalline vanadium silicates (Si/V 79161) with MEL structure may have a single vanadium species according to the 51V NMR wherein a single peak at 573 ppm having a width of 50 ppm is observed. 456 These spectroscopic parameters correspond to tetrahedrally coordinated V4+, thus, ruling out the presence of V2O5 clusters in these solids. A linear increase in the intensity of the ESR peaks with the vanadium content was also observed. The solids possess both Brnsted and Lewis acid sites as evidenced by the pyridine adsorption method. These vanadium silicates oxidizes toluene to a mixture of cresols, benzylic alcohol, and benzaldehyde.456 The internal location of the V ions inside the channel system of the MEL zeotype was demonstrated from the differences in the oxidation rates for xylene isomers.456 Tin has been claimed to be introduced in framework positions of MFI, ZSM-12, ZSM-48, and Beta zeolite. 457-463 In zeolites, Sn tends to be located in satellite positions, i.e., in defects. With a sample of Sn-Beta synthesized with enriched 119Sn, it has been found by 119Sn NMR that the metal adopts a 6-fold coordination when the solid is hydrated, and changes to a four coordination upon dehydration.463 The activation of the Sn-zeolites is critical. Overheating during calcination brings about structure stabilization and at the same time a partial ejection of framework Sn occurs. Calcination in shallow bed at temperatures not higher than 773 K allows the Sn to stay attached to the framework in tetrahedral coordination.459,464,465
10. Catalytic Activity of Microporous Molecular Sieves with Framework Transition Metals for Oxidation Reactions Using Peroxides
a.Epoxidation of Olefins. Ti-zeolites and more specifically TS-1 have been the most successful transition metal containing zeolites from a catalytic point of view. The use of H2O2 is environmentally adequate, but the process is complicated by its inmiscibility with organic solvents. The presence of accompanying water that can promote hydrolysis can also be a limitation. TS-1 and Ti-Beta catalysts have shown to be active and selective for olefin epoxidation with H2O2. Ti-Beta, with a lower intrinsic activity than TS-1, can epoxidize bulkier olefins than TS-1 owing to the large pore diameter of the former. The use of TS-1 for production of propylene oxide would allow the use of H2O2 instead of the organic hydroperoxide used in ARCO and SHELL processes. It has to be remarked, however, that while H2O2 gives a higher flexibility, the use of the organic peroxides in ARCO and SHELL processes can also be economically interesting if there is a market for the products formed. Recently, Sumitomo has presented a new technology in which the organic peroxide (cumene hydroperoxide) is produced in the plant by reoxidation of the alcohol formed when transferring the oxygen from cumene hydroperoxide to the propylene. 466-472 In the case of propylene oxidation with H2O2 at 313 K using methanol as solvent, 95% of the H2O2 is reacted with 90% selectivity to propylene oxide. The byproducts formed are mainly propylene glycol and its monomethyl ethers. These reactions are catalyzed by residual Brnsted acidity or even by the Lewis acidity of the Ti. Therefore, improvements in selectivity are obtained by partially neutralizing catalyst acidity. Obviously, the catalyst deactivates with time of use.333 This deactivation is mainly due to the strong adsorption of glycol on Ti that competes with reactants for adsorption sites. The catalyst can be regenerated by eliminating the adsorbed products by calcination or by washing with alcohols, or by refluxing the catalyst with dilute H2O2. 473 EniChem has designed a new process for the one-step epoxidation of propylene to the epoxide using TS-1 catalyst. The technology, based on a slurry process, is highly selective and generates a limited amount of byproducts. 474 Degussa has also announced a process for the epoxidation of propylene to the epoxide.
The TS-1 oxidation of larger alkenes is diffusion-limited and then there is one opportunity for Ti-Beta which has larger pores to be more active than TS-1. In this sense, Tatsumi et al. 475 showed that during oxidation of n-paraffins with H2O2 in the presence of TS-1 catalyst, the rate of oxidation decreased when increasing chain length due to diffusional limitations. In the case of n-olefins, Corma et al.361 found that when increasing the chain length of n-olefins at least up to C12, the turnover number (mol/mol Ti h) for epoxidation increased with TS-1, but selectivity to epoxide decreased. In the case of Ti-Beta, turnover number also increased, but this increase was larger than with TS-1. In other words, it seems that Ti-Beta, especially when properly synthesized and subject to a postsynthesis treatment, 476 gives higher activities and selectivities than TS-1 for olefins with 8 or more carbons. However, the preferred solvent for Ti-Beta is acetonitrile instead of methanol which in turn is more suitable for TS-1. An example of the benefit of the larger pores of Ti-Beta for the epoxidation of long chain n-olefins and bulky olefins corresponds to the epoxidation of methyl oleate and linalool for the production of chemicals and fine chemicals. 362,477 Ti-Beta zeolites within a wide range of Ti and Al contents were used for the selective oxidation with H2O2 of n-hexane to ketones, cyclohexane to adipic acid, octanol to octanoic acid, cyclopentanone to glutaric acid, and the side chain oxidation of toluene. 478n-Hexane conversions of 210% were achieved, the products formed being the 2- and 3-alcohols and ketones. A 25% yield of adipic acid with 55% selectivity was obtained for the oxidation of cyclohexane with Ti-Beta and H2O2. The oxidation of toluene gave 19% yield of side chain oxidation in a total selectivity of 76% with nearly equal amounts of benzyl alcohol, aldehyde, and acid. Ti-Beta was much superior than TS-1 for oxidation to acids. TS-1, on the other hand, was a good catalyst for conversion of allyl chloride to epichlorohydrin with diluted H2O2. The conversion of peroxide was 80% with an epoxide selectivity of 90%. 479 α-Methylstyrene is converted to acetophenone using TS-1 and TS-2. 480 Novel layered zeolites with a very large external surface area and a reduced microporosity have been obtained by delamination of layered zeolite precursors before calcination. 481 For instance, ITQ-6 has been obtained by delamination of the layered precursor of ferrierite, and it has a very large surface area that is accessible to large reactants. It has been possible to introduce directly by synthesis Ti atoms in framework positions. It was demonstrated that Ti occupies framework positions. The resulting Ti/ITQ-6 is active and selective for the 1-hexene epoxidation with hydrogen peroxide. Ti/ITQ-6 remains active after repeated reaction/calcination cycling.394,398 b.Ammoximation of Ketones. Ammoximation of cyclohexanone to cyclohexanone oxime is carried out by reacting cyclohexanone with hydroxylamine sulfate. This process generates one mole of (NH4)2SO4 per mole of the oxime formed. The cyclohexanone oxime is used to produce caprolactam. EniChem has found that TS-1 is able to catalyze the reaction of hydrogen peroxide and ammonium hydroxide to form in situ hydroxylamine that subsequently reacts with cyclohexanone to form the corresponding oxime (Scheme 37). 482 Scheme 37 Nitrogen and nitrous oxide are also formed in very low amounts. Other byproducts formed from homogeneous reactions are nitrocyclohexane, (cyclohexenyl)cyclohexanone, and cyclohexanone azine. 483 Some catalyst deactivation is observed due to the dissolution of the zeolite in the alkaline reaction media. EniChem and Sumitomo have presented a new process for the production of caprolactam that involves the use of TS-1 for producing the oxime from cyclohexanone. The reaction takes place in a continuous stirred tank reactor in tert-butyl alcohol as solvent. Kim et al. 484 reported that the activity of TS-1 for the H2O2 ammoxidation of cyclohexanone depended on crystallite size, titanium concentration, and the mode of addition of the peroxide. TS-1, Ti-ZSM-48, and Ti-Al-Beta were tested in the ammoximation of cyclohexanone and hydroxy aromatic ketones. 485 Ti-Beta shows catalytic properties similar to TS-1, only using a large excess of NH4OH and methanol as a solvent, because of its hydrophilic character. We have found that when hydrophobic Ti-Beta zeolites are produced and C3C4 alcohols are used as solvent, the catalytic behavior of Ti-Beta approaches to that of TS-1.379 Ti-ZSM-48 owing to its monodimensional channel system gives poor catalytic results. However, Ti-mordenite prepared by a secondary synthesis method from dealuminated mordenite (Si/Al = 300) gives good ammoximation results. 486 c. Oxidation of Heterocompounds. TS-1 is a good catalyst to carry out the oxidation of 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl piperidine with H2O2 to the corresponding nitroxyl compounds with 96% yields. 487 Some worse results were reported by Horchler et al. 488 during the oxidation of heterocyclic compounds such as pyrazole by TS-1 and H2O2, with yields of 34% and selectivities of 46.5%.
Aniline can be oxidized with H2O2 giving a rather complex reaction mixture114 when using Ti-Beta and Ti-mesoporous materials (Scheme 38). 489,490 Scheme 38 The reaction scheme shows the formation of phenylhydroxylamine, nitrosobenzene, and nitrobenzene in a series of consecutive reactions. The condensation of unreacted aniline with nitrosobenzene results in the formation of azobenzene, while reaction of hydroxylamine with nitrosobenzene produces azoxybenzene.
Na- and/or K-doped TS-1 catalyst has been used for the selective oxidation of diethylamine to diethylhydroxylamine with diluted hydrogen peroxide. 491-493 The selectivity to diethylhydroxylamine is highest for the K-doped TS-1, with a K/Ti atomic ratio of 1.492 With the optimum catalyst, a selectivity to diethylhydroxylamine of 92% was measured with a H2O2/(CH3CH2)2NH ratio of 0.9. Since Ti catalyzes the oxidation of both diethylamine and diethylhydroxylamine, the results of the catalytic activity have been interpreted as reflecting the neutralization of the Lewis acid sites, thus disfavoring the adsorption of the weakest base.492 Tertiary amines are oxidized to the corresponding nitrogen oxides. Tosyl hydrazone undergo CN oxidative bond cleavage with H2O2 to give high yields of the corresponding carbonyl compounds. It has been postulated that for this reaction, oxaziridines would be formed as intermediate compounds that would be oxidized to carbonyl compounds. 494 Hydroperoxides and peracids are known to oxidize organic sulfides to sulfoxides and sulfones. However, a more friendly process involves TS-1 and TS-2 molecular sieves which efficiently catalyze the oxidation of thioethers to the corresponding sulfoxides and sulfones using diluted H2O2 as oxidant (Scheme 39).339 Scheme 39 When bulkier sulfides are to be reacted, Ti-Beta and Ti-MCM-41 give a better performance than TS-1 using either H2O2 or organic peroxides. 495 This type of reaction has been applied to the elimination of sulfur-containing compounds in the kerosene fraction. 496,497 In this case, Ti-Beta is used in the presence of H2O2 and acetonitrile as a solvent to form sulfones from sulfides and thiophenes. The more polar sulfones are washed out with water from the kerosene fraction.
Small and medium sizes silanes can be oxidized at room temperature to the corresponding silanols by H2O2 using Ti-Beta as catalyst with high conversions and excellent selectivity (Scheme 40).402 The major advantage compared to homogeneous catalysis is the absence of disiloxane formation due to steric restrictions. In contrast, TS-1 was found inactive for this reaction due to the lack of diffusion of reagents through the medium size pores.
Scheme 40 d.Hydroxylation of Phenol. Dihydroxybenzenes are largely used today as intermediate chemicals. They are produced by decomposition of diisopropyl benzene hydroperoxides, or by hydroxylation of phenol in strong acid media (ClO4H). Hydroquinone (p-dihydroxybenzene) was also produced by the oxidation of aniline using manganese dioxide and sulfuric acid (Scheme 41). This was then followed by reduction using typically Fe/HCl.
Scheme 41 The last process gives a very poor atom economy while producing a large amount of waste. 430,498 A more convenient procedure for production of catechol (o-dihydroxybenzene) and hydroquinone p-dihydroxybenzene has been developed that makes use of TS-1 as a catalyst and H2O2 as hydroxylating agent. High conversions and selectivities are obtained (Scheme 42). 499 Scheme 42 Owing to a combination of pore dimensions and solvent used, the catechol/hydroquinone ratio can be varied between 0.5 and 1.3. In aqueous acetone, the ratio is 1.3, while hydroquinone formation prevails in methanol. At elevated phenol concentrations, even in methanol, that ratio is close to one. For observing shape selectivity based on product diffusion, there is a catalyst parameter that plays an important role, namely, zeolite crystallite size. Smaller crystal size increases diffusivity, increasing therefore the reaction rate. 500 Small crystallites have a higher external to internal surface ratio and then nonselective reactions occurring on the external surface should become more important. Following this, it was claimed that catechol was mainly produced at the external surface of TS-1 crystallite, 501 modifying the expected catechol-to-hydroquinone ratio, and producing more tars. Moreover, it was found that acetone was able to dissolve the tars formed on the external surface, while methanol was not. These results allow the explanation of the influence of the solvent on the catechol/hydroquinone (C/H) ratio by assuming that in methanol, catechol is rapidly formed on the external surface while hydroquinone formed inside the pores is formed more slowly giving high ratios C/H in the first moments. Following this, when the surface sites are poisoned by the tars formed, the catechol formed at the external surface strongly decreases producing a decrease of the C/H ratio in the products. In acetone, however, catechol was always the main component through the course of the reaction owing to the solubility of surface tars by acetone.
Another catalyst variable, especially important for phenol hydroxylation was the presence or not of amorphous material in the TS-1, and especially TiO2. The presence of TiO2 anatase and/or amorphous titanosilicates significantly decreases the yields of dihydroxybenzenes. Concentration of catalyst and reaction temperature have an important effect on yields, besides the obvious kinetic effect. When the concentration of TS-1 increases from 1 to 4 wt %, yield increases from 65 to 82% and tar production decreases. 502 Optimum temperature is in the range 80100 C for which dihydroxybenzene selectivity is still high and tar selectivity is low. 502,503 The presence or not of a solvent and its nature is also an important variable. Acetone was seen to dissolve the tars, while acetonitrile has a negative influence. 504 Water was found to be the best solvent. 505 Ti-Al-Beta and Ti-Beta zeolite prepared by direct synthesis gave equimolecular amounts of the two isomers,366 and give better results than Ti-Beta or Ti-mordenite prepared by postsynthesis methods.505 Ti-Al-mordenites prepared by hydrothermal and secondary synthesis gave also low yields for benzene hydroxylation. 506-508 It would be very interesting to produce the direct hydroxylation of benzene with H2O2. When this reaction is carried out in the presence of TS-1 as catalyst, phenol is formed as the primary product, but conversion should be kept low to avoid formation of the secondary catechol and hydroquinone products. While acetone and methanol can be used as solvents, it has been found that the hydroxylation of benzene without any organic solvent, i.e., in a triphase system, is 20 times faster than when using acetone or acetonitrile as solvents. 509 It is evident that for this reaction the hydrophobic/hydrophilic properties of the catalyst should be of paramount importance. Thus, a more hydrophobic catalyst should favor the adsorption of organophilic reagents (benzene) toward other more polar ones (H2O2, acetone).
In the case of the hydroxylation of substituted benzenes, electron-withdrawing groups, such as chlorobenzene, nitrobenzene, benzonitrile, benzaldehyde, and benzoic acid, reduce the rate of hydroxylation of the aromatic ring, indicating the electrophilicity of the oxidant species,502 and very large amounts of catalyst are needed to observe some conversion. 510 While electron-donating groups should increase the rate of hydroxylation, the size of the substituents can affect the diffusion of the reactant, and a decrease in conversion may occur in more activated molecules.410 It is with these bulkier molecules that large pore Ti-zeolites could be of more interest. Attention should be paid in Ti-mesoporous materials since a leaching of Ti in the presence of H2O2 occurs. e.Oxidation of Alcohols. TS-1 and Ti-Beta catalyze the selective oxidation of alcohols with diluted H2O2 under mild conditions.406,511-514 Ti-Beta can also oxidize alcohols using organic peroxides as oxidants.513,514 Oxidation of secondary alcohols give high yields of the corresponding ketone, while primary alcohols produce the aldehyde. Tertiary alcohols are not oxidized but converted to alkylhydroperoxides.406 When a double bond and hydroxy group are both present in the same molecule, TS-1 is chemoselective for the epoxidation of the double bond. 515-519
11. Oxidation Activity of Microporous Molecular Sieves with Metals Other than Ti
Besides Ti-zeolites, other transition metal-substituted zeolites are also active and selective for carrying out oxidations in liquid phase using either H2O2 or organic peroxides as oxidants. For instance, V-MEL silicalite is active for alkane oxidation and phenol hydroxylation. However, selectivities and H2O2 yields are lower than for TS-1.424 V-MFI also catalyzes phenol hydroxylation and toluene oxidation with H2O2 giving a similar product distribution than V-MEL, but with lower peroxide efficiencies. V-silicalites have a higher activity than Ti-silicalites for the oxyfunctionalization of primary carbon atoms in alkanes and toluene. This indicates a more pronounced homolytic tendency of the active complex.
Vanadium mesoporous silicalites, either amorphous or ordered, have also been synthesized, showing activity for different reactions. However, they are very unstable when using H2O2 as oxidant. 520 In general, it can be said that under liquid-phase oxidation some of the vanadium is leached from the lattice, and the homogeneous reaction occurring can mask the results from the solid catalyst.319 VAPO-5 was found to catalyze selectively the epoxidation of allylic alcohols and benzylic oxidations with TBHP,449 with higher eficiency than VAPO-11. On the basis of 51V NMR studies on the interaction of vanadium species in VAPO-5 with TBHP a model was proposed for the catalytic sites of VAPO-5 (Scheme 43).
Scheme 43 In the case of Cr substituted molecular sieves, H2O2 or alkyl hydroperoxides led to breakdown of the SiOCr or AlOCr bonds in substituted zeolites or AlPOs and to the leaching of some chromium in solution. Thus, most of the catalytic results that assumed that reaction was occurring in the micropores have to be reinterpreted by taking into account that an important part of the catalysis occurs with the leached chromium in liquid phase. 521 CoAPOs have also used for liquid-phase oxidations of alkanes and alkylaromatics. Under these conditions, Co may leach if working in basic media, in the presence of organic acids or in the presence of strong polar solvents. 522,523 Sn-silicalite is active for the hydroxylation of phenol in dilute H2O2 as oxidant. A direct correlation between the activity and Sn content up to about 2.4 Sn per unit cell was observed with a ratio of catechol to hydroquinone of 1.6. Among the different solvents used water was found the most efficient. The isolated Sn(IV) centers tend to coordinate strongly with solvent molecules such as acetone and acetonitrile reducing the solvolysis of SiOSn bonds. Sn-ZSM-12 owing to its larger pores catalyzes the hydroxylation of toluene, m-cresol, and m-xylene, as well as the oxidation of methyl substituents. The product distribution and the ability of Sn-ZSM-12 to oxidize naphthalene and 2-methylnaphthalene suggest that the Sn4+ ions are located within the channels of the molecular sieves. 458,524 Sn-AlBeta and dealuminated Sn-AlBeta were active for the oxidation of m-cresol and 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene with moderate selectivities and H2O2 selectivities.461 Al-free Sn-Beta obtained by direct synthesis is able to catalyze the BaeyerVilliger oxidation of cyclic ketones with diluted H2O2 with good activities and very high selectivity to the corresponding lactone.463 When a double bond is also present in the reactant cyclic ketone, a very high chemoselectivity for the BaeyerVilliger reaction is observed with Sn-Beta catalyst (Table 4).
Table 4. Baeyer-Villiger Oxidation of Dihydrocarvone Using Different Oxidation Systemsb aUp to 100% were opening products of the epoxide.bTaken from ref 463.
The Sn located in the framework of Beta acts as a Lewis acid coordinating the ketone on the Sn atoms. For studying the reaction mechanism on this catalyst, methylcyclohexanone labeled with 18O was reacted. The BaeyerVilliger oxidation leads the incorporation of all labeled oxygen into the lactone product as carbonyl oxygen and none is present as ring oxygen. Thus, it was concluded that the BaeyerVilliger oxidation with H2O2 on Sn-Beta proceeds via a Criegee adducts, where H2O2 adds to the ketone activated by the Sn-Beta, and the formation of dioxiranes or carbonyl oxides as intermediates can be excluded. The complete mechanistic cycle proposed is presented in Figure 4.
Figure 4 Mechanism of BaeyerVilliger oxidation of 2-methyl-cyclohexanone catalyzed by SnBeta.
Sn-Beta also carries out the selective BaeyerVilliger oxidation of aldehydes to carboxylic acids and shows the shape selectivity behavior associated to the pore diameter and internal void space of this zeolite.476 As reported earlier, the Oppenauer oxidation of alcohols by ketones is a very selective oxidation reaction when the molecule contains other groups susceptible to be oxidized. The opposite reaction, i.e., the reduction of carbonyl compounds by alcohols, is called the MeerweinPonndorfVerley reaction. Both types of reactions proceed via a complex in which both reactants are coordinated to a Lewis acid metal ion and a hydride transfer from the alcohol to the carbonyl group occurs (Scheme 44) Scheme 44 Usually, metal tert-butoxides Lewis acids are used in these oxidations, one of the most common being Al(OiPr)3 and more recently other highly active aluminum alkoxides. 525 Therefore, molecular sieves containing Lewis acids should be appropriate catalysts for the MeerweinPonndorfVerleyOppenauer reactions. We have seen previously that Lewis acids can be generated in zeolites from the extraframework Al species (EFAL), from exchanged cations, and by framework isomorphous substitutions. It is not surprising then that A, X, and Y zeolites exchanged or impregnated with alkali or alkaline earth cations have been used as catalyst for MeerweinPonndorfVerley and Oppenauer reactions in gas phase. 526-528 More interesting zeolite catalysts in the liquid-phase turned to be Al-Beta and Ti-Beta zeolites. The MeerweinPonndorfVerley reduction of 4-tert-butylcyclohexanone to 4-tert-butylcyclohexanol, a classical transformation for this reaction type, can be catalyzed by Al-Beta and Ti-Beta zeolites. The high selectivity toward the thermodynamically less favored cis-alcohol was explained by zeolite shape selectivity, while the active sites were the extraframework aluminum and framework Ti. 529-531 In the case of Ti-Beta, the activity of the catalyst in the gas-phase reaction was found to correlate with the reduction potential of the alcohol, i.e., secondary alcohols are more active than primary alcohols. The selectivity was dependent on the polarity of the alcohol and the zeolite. An advantage of Ti-Beta in the gas-phase MeerweinPonndorfVerley and Oppenauer reactions is the high resistance to water and ammonia and the excellent stability.370 Beta zeolite with a large amount of extraframework aluminum acting as strong Lewis acids was very active as a MeerweinPonndorfVerley and Oppenauer catalyst, but the selectivity was somewhat lower due to the presence of residual Brnsted acidity.
Very recently, Sn-Beta has been introduced as a MeerweinPonndorfVerley and Oppenauer catalyst, based on the fact that it has a stronger Lewis acidity than Ti-Beta, but has not residual Brnsted acidity as it was the case of Al-Beta. The Sn-Beta zeolite allows one to work at low ratios alcohol/ketone and it gives higher activity and selectivity than either Ti-Beta or Al-Beta.476 It is interesting to notice that the Sn-Beta catalyst has been active and selective for oxidizing vainilline alcohol to vainilline by means of the MeerweinPonndorfVerley and Oppenauer reaction. 532 Very recently, the enantioselective synthesis of chiral alcohols by the MeerweinPonndorfVerley and Oppenauer reduction of the corresponding ketone has been achieved by a ruthenium complex of N-benzyl-(1R,2R)-()-norephedrine covalently tethered to silica. The ee was as high as 90% at 95% conversion. 533 This report could trigger research aimed at developing solid catalysts for enantioselective MeerweinPonndorfVerleyOppenauer reaction.
It appears to us that both micro and mesoporous substituted molecular sieves can be promising heterogeneous catalysts for the MeerweinPonndorfVerley and Oppenauer reactions provided that Lewis acidity and solid polarity can be adjusted to the requirements of a particular reaction. These polarity adjustments can be quite useful to control reactant concentrations within the pores and in this way to be able to work with reactant concentrations in the reaction media more adequate for industrial applications. Furthermore, the use of chiral auxiliaries, chiral ligands, and ship-in-a-bottle chiral complexes remain a field to be explored in more detail using molecular sieves as catalysts for MeerweinPonndorfVerley and Oppenauer reactions.
12. Selective Oxidations Using N2O.
Dehydroxylated and high-silica pentasil HZSM-5 zeolites have been used as catalysts for the selective oxidation of aromatic compounds including benzene, chlorobenzene, difluorobenzenes, phenol, styrene, and alkylbenzenes into their corresponding phenols using nitrous oxide as oxidant. 534,535 Steamed H/AlZSM-5 with strong Lewis acid sites is highly active for the oxidation of benzene with N2O.75 High phenol yields (7080% in the case of hydroxylation of benzene), high selectivities and regioselectivities were observed in all cases. The active sites were shown to be strong Lewis acidbase pair sites formed upon dehydroxylation of acidic HZSM-5 zeolite.75,534 Likewise, metal-containing zeolites have also been active for the hydroxylation of benzene using N2O as oxidant. Yields up to 16% with 99% selectively can be achieved at 400 C of reaction temperature. 536,537 The catalytic performance of the zeolite can be improved by incorporating small iron amounts into zeolites such as ZSM-5, ZSM-11, ZSM-12, ZSM-23, mordenite, Beta, EU-1. Phenol yields of 2030% with selectivities 9097% have been achieved using iron-doped zeolites. 538,539 An optimal content and distribution of extraframework iron in Fe-silicates increases phenol selectivity, while high acidity increases benzene conversion, but lowers phenol yield. It has been observed that Lewis acids caused catalyst deactivation. 540 Even at low temperatures, N2O does not adsorb as such on the catalyst but undergoes decomposition. 541 Apparently, the same sites are responsible for benzene oxidation and N2O decomposition.540 Iron ions can be incorporated into the zeolite either during the synthesis or by some postsynthesis technique. 542 Considering a general composition of the catalyst: y El2O3: x Fe2O3: SiO2 in which y = 06.5 × 10-2 and x = 1.5 × 10-5  2 × 10-2, the incorporation of elements (El) in the general composition of the 2, 3, 4, and 5 periods of the periodic system has been reported.538 Aluminum-containing zeolites are more active, while the introduction of Na+ in the zeolite decreases the catalyst activity.538 Inert gas additive has been used to prevent reactor temperature increase due to the exothermicity of the reaction. However, in all cases catalyst deactivation with time on stream is one of the main obstacles for process commercialization.
Catalyst stability can be increased by hydrothermal treatment of the zeolite. 539,543 Key parameters for steam treatment are temperature, steam partial pressure, and time of treatment. It has been reported that a hydrothermal treatment at 700 C with 50% molar H2O for 2 h increases benzene conversion and catalyst stability when using ZSM-5.539 However, the optimal conditions of hydrothermal activation can be different for different types of catalysts. A further improvement in catalyst stability for benzene hydroxylation has been achieved by acid treatment of the zeolite after hydrothermal treatment. 544 Hydrothermal treatment of the catalyst is believed to remove aluminum from the framework of the zeolite but not from the bulk of the zeolite material.
13. Selective Oxidations Using Molecular Oxygen
There are some important unresolved selective oxidations that have been attempted using molecular sieve catalysts. Among them the oxyfunctionalization of alkanes and cycloalkanes is of particular importance.
Alkane oxidation with dioxygen through a radical mechanism is generally referred to as autoxidation and suffers from the relatively harsh conditions to be initiated and very low selectivity, due to secondary reactions of the primary products.
Although there have been major advances in the oxidation of saturated hydrocarbons with molecular oxygen, the development of effective and selective methods for the catalytic functionalization of hydrocarbons still remains a major challenge in oxidation chemistry.276,277,545-551 It seems that alkane activation on a solid surface requires the presence of strong acid or basic sites. 481,552 In the following section, we will present some recent progress in the application of solid Lewis acids as catalysts using oxygen as oxidizing reagent. a.Molecular Sieves as Catalysts. Enzymes such as cytochrome P-450 and non-heme, iron-based oxidase are able to carry out selectively the oxyfunctionalization of alkanes with O2. On the other hand, inorganic catalysts such as transition metal complexes and metal substituted polyoxometalates either in homogeneous phase or supported on a solid carrier by anchoring in mesoporous materials or by encapsulation in microporous molecular sieves are effective when using oxidants such as iodosylbenzene, alkyl hydroperoxides, and hydrogen peroxide,283,284,553-558 and can, in some cases, also use molecular oxygen as oxidant. 559-562 Aldehydes are oxidized to the corresponding peracids using O2. When this is done in the presence of a reactant able to be oxidized by the peracids, a system is developed in which the aldehyde can act as a oxygen transfer agent. This process can be carried out in homogeneous phase (Mukaiyama system), 563,564 and has also been carried out using aluminophosphates containing Mn (III) and Co (III) at 323 K and 30 bar and using benzaldehyde as the oxidant transfer agent to epoxidize cyclohexene, α-pinene, limonene, styrene, and 1-hexene, 565 as well as to carry out BaeyerVilliger oxidations. 566 The limitation of this procedure is that a sacrificial reactant, in this case benzaldehyde, is used that is transformed into benzoic acid. From this point of view, it is much better to use either H2O2 or H2O2 generated in situ. Thus, in an analogous way, H2O2 could also be generated in situ in the reaction media, and then it acts as the oxidant in the presence of the adequate catalyst. Thus, Solvay describes a process for the production of H2O2 using Pd on alumina catalyzed hydrogenation in an organic solvent in the presence of an alkylanthraquinone followed by oxidation in air. They also reported that organic peracids were efficiently prepared from the corresponding acid and H2O2 through the use of a support metal oxide that has been silanized. 567,568 Thus, Clerici and Ingallina 332,569 were able to epoxidize propylene in the presence of TS-1 and in one pot starting with an alkylated anthrahydroquinone with molecular oxygen and propylene (Scheme 45).
Scheme 45 In this process, the organic carrier does not interfere in the catalytic process since it cannot penetrate into the zeolite pores. In this process, it is claimed that the solvent and anthraquinone derivative play a crucial role. Yields of propylene, based on starting alkyl anthrahydroquinone, of 78% are obtained. Anthrahydroquinone is consumed in the first process, but regenerated separately by subsequent hydrogenation.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis, what mechanisms (such as Mars van Krevelen and H-abstraction) are involved in these processes, and how are these principles applied in industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, using the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride as a specific example?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 