<quotes>
Catalytic effects in propene ammoxidation achieved through substitutions in the M2 phase of the MoVNbTe-oxide system Johan Holmberga Staffan Hansenb Robert K. Grassellic,d and Arne Anderssona,* aDepartment of Chemical Engineering, Lund University, Chemical Center, PO Box 124SE-221 00, Lund, Sweden

The aim of this publication is to study the catalytic and structural effects of substitutions in the M2 phase for its performance in converting propene to acrylonitrile.

The M2 phase was likewise shown to have the composition Mo4.31V1.36Nb0.33Te1.81O19.81 (Pmm2; a = 12.6294 A ;b = 7.29156 A ; c = 4.02010 A ; Z = 4), with a structure similar to that of KW3O9 [13], and with Te placed in the hexagonal channels.

The results of the activity measurements and the XPS investigation indicate that the site, activating propene and ammonia on the unsubstituted M2 phase is a surface ensemble of Mo and Te. W and Ce were found to be able to mimic the role of Mo and Te, respectively; W mainly via site isolation and electronic effects, Ce via redox effects.

V- and Ti-sites are shown to be inactive, having merely the role of structure adjusting elements, and serving as templates to complex the excess Te on the surface.

Improvement can be made by optimizing the crystallite sizes and habits of the constituent M1 and M2 phases and their mixing ratio. Another option is to make substitutions in either or both phases.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
This research focuses on the catalytic and structural impacts of substituting the M2 phase of the MoVNbTe-oxide system to enhance its performance in converting propene to acrylonitrile. The M2 phase has a structure akin to KW3O9, with Te positioned within hexagonal channels. The study reveals that the active site for propene and ammonia activation on the unmodified M2 phase is a composite of Mo and Te surfaces. Substitution with tungsten (W) and cerium (Ce) can emulate the roles of Mo and Te, respectively. These replacements are facilitated by site isolation and electronic effects for W, and redox effects for Ce. Vanadium (V)- and titanium (Ti)-containing sites are inactive, serving primarily as structure-adjusting elements that complex excess Te on the surface. Enhancements in catalyst performance can be achieved by refining the crystallite sizes and orientations of the M1 and M2 phases, along with their proportion in the catalyst mix.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
这项研究专注于通过替换MoVNbTe氧化物体系中的M2相来提高其将丙烯转化为丙烯腈性能的催化和结构效应。M2相的结构类似于KW3O9，其中Te位于六边形通道内。研究表明，在未修改的M2相上激活丙烯和氨的活性位点是Mo和Te表面的复合体。用钨(W)和铈(Ce)进行替换可以模拟Mo和Te的作用，分别通过位点隔离和电子效应以及氧化还原效应。V和Ti含量的位点是无活性的，主要作为结构调整元素，用于在表面上复杂化过量的Te。通过细化M1和M2相的晶粒大小和取向，以及它们在催化剂混合物中的比例，可以获得增强的催化剂性能。
