Thin Solid Films 428 (2003) 47–51
0040-6090/03/$ - see front matter  2002 Elsevier Science B.V
. All rights reserved.
PII: S0040-6090Ž02.01260-9
Ultrathin Pd and Pt films on W(211)
J. Block , J.J. Kolodziej , J.E. Rowe , T.E. Madey , E. Schroder *
a
b
c
b
a,
¨
Department of Applied Physics, Chalmers University of Technology and Goteborg University, Goteborg SE-412 96, Sweden
a
¨
¨
Department of Physics and Astronomy and Laboratory for Surface Modification, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Piscataway,
b
NJ 08854-8019, USA
Physics Department, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, USA
c
Abstract
The transition metals Pd and Pt have, in bulk, approximately the same nearest neighbor distance as tungsten, so that ultrathin
Pd or Pt films can be grown on W substrates without creating significant strain. In the present work we study ultrathin Pd and Pt
films on the atomically rough W(211) surface by first-principles density-functional theory (DFT) methods. Previous experiments,
summarized here, have shown that in films thicker than 1 physical monolayer (PML), tungsten atoms of the substrate diffuse
into the film to create alloys. Both to confirm the alloy formation from theory and to help characterize the alloys we present
studies of Pd and Pt films with included W atoms. The DFT results allow us to indicate the energetically preferred alloy structures.
 2002 Elsevier Science B.V
. All rights reserved.
Keywords:
First-principles calculations; Platinum; Palladium; Tungsten; W(211); Surface; Alloy; Thin film
1. Introduction
This paper reports theory and experiment for the
formation of alloy layers in the growth of transition
metal films on W surfaces. It has been shown recently
that the atomically rough tungsten (111) surface under-
goes morphological changes upon adsorbing monolayer
films of certain metals (Pt, Pd, Ir, Rh, Au), followed by
annealing to T)750 K w1,2x. Under these conditions,
the metal film-coated W(111) becomes covered with
three-sided pyramids of nanometer-scale dimensions,
having {211} planes as facet sides. The b.c.c.(211)
surface has a row-trough structure, qualitatively similar
to f.c.c.(110). Because of the special role of W{211}
planes in the faceting process, the goal of the present
paper is to provide detailed information on growth,
segregation
and
alloying
processes
occurring
on
W(211)-based bimetallic systems involving late transi-
tion metals. We compare theory and experiment related
to surface segregation and alloying.
High resolution soft X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
(SXPS) using synchrotron radiation and Auger-electron
spectroscopy are used to study late-transition-metal films
(Pt, Pd, Ir, Rh) on W(211) w3–5x. As a function of the
*Corresponding author. Tel.: q46-31-772-8424; fax: q46-31-772-
8426.
E-mail address: schroder@fy.chalmers.se (E. Schroder).
¨
film thickness, different 4f
photoemission peaks are
7y2
observed, corresponding to a single monolayer, to an
interface layer, to bulk atoms and to surface atoms.
Single physical monolayers of these late-transition met-
als on tungsten are stable against thermal rearrangement.
In contrast, when multilayer films of Pd, Pt, Ir, Rh are
annealed above 700–1000 K, tungsten atoms diffuse
into the overlayer to form an alloy film.
We also characterize ultrathin Pd and Pt films on the
atomically rough W(211) surface by first-principles
density-functional theory (DFT) methods w6–8x. The
thicknesses of the films are up to 6 atomic layers,
corresponding to 3 physical monolayers (PML), as
defined in, e.g. w3,5x.
Both to confirm the formation of alloy from theory
and to help characterize the alloy, we present studies of
Pd and Pt films with included W atoms. The DFT
calculations allow us to suggest the energetically pre-
ferred structures. We find that the DFT results are
consistent with the experimental observations.
2. Experiments
The experimental methods used for preparation and
characterization of the Pt and Pd films are described in
w3,9x. In this paper, the emphasis is on comparison of
the experimental results for the Pt and Pd films with
48
J. Block et al. / Thin Solid Films 428 (2003) 47–51
Fig. 1. Film alloy processes (at thickness G2 PML) for various annealing temperatures, found from SXPS and temperature programmed desorption
(TPD) measurements as described in w3,5x for Pt, Pd on W(211). The temperature indications are approximate.
theory calculations, and the experimental results of
relevance for this comparison are summarized below.
Dosing of the Pt and Pd films is carried out at room
temperature (300 K). Auger uptake, quartz crystal micro
balance and low-energy electron diffraction measure-
ments all indicate that Pt and Pd films on W(211)
exhibit pseudomorphic layer-by-layer growth, at least up
to a thickness of 2 PML. The pseudomorphic structure
is not changed by subsequent annealing.
Films of thickness 1 PML are thermally stable, i.e.
there is no evidence for mixing of the W and Pt (or
Pd) atoms after annealing to high temperature and
cooling to 300 K. In contrast, for Pt films of thickness
2 PML or more, W atoms from the W–Pt interface mix
into the Pt film even while dosing at 300 K, forming a
dilute, pseudomorphic alloy. For Pd films, this mixing
does not occur at room temperature, but annealing the
structure will create a similar dilute W–Pd alloy. At
higher annealing temperatures, both Pt and Pd films are
changed into alloy films, approximately up to the solu-
bility limit of W in Pt (or Pd). The alloy formation
processes at various annealing temperatures are indicated
in Fig. 1.
There is clear evidence from low-energy ion scattering
and SXPS experiments for Pd films w3,10x, and from
SXPS experiments for Pt films w3x, that no W atoms are
exposed on the surface of multilayer alloy films, not
even when W atoms are present in the bulk of the film.
This is consistent with Pt and Pd having smaller surface
energies than W.
3. Density functional theory calculations
The differences in energy between elemental Pt(Pd)
films and alloy films are determined from first-principles
plane-wave DFT calculations based on the generalized
gradient approximation w6,7x. Modern implementations
of the DFT method in combination with powerful
parallel computers facilitates calculations of the elec-
tronic structure and energy of rather large or complicated
systems, as shown in a number of previous works w8,11–
13x. We here use ultrasoft pseudopotentials with the
atoms placed in a slab configuration in a surface unit
cell with periodic boundary conditions. Each surface
unit cell contains eight W atoms plus a number of Pt or
Pd atoms (three–six Pt or Pd atoms for 1.5–3 PML
films), as illustrated in the left-most sketch in Fig. 2.
The four W atoms farthest from the film surface are
fixed in the bulk-structure positions whereas the other
W atoms, as well as all Pd or Pt atoms, are allowed to
move perpendicular to the surface. Laterally, all atoms
are fixed in b.c.c.(211) positions, corresponding to the
pseudomorphic structure observed in the experiments
w9x. However, for a number of the structures we also
released this constraint. The atomic positions are locally
optimized by minimizing the Hellmann–Feynman forces
until the sum of forces on all unrestrained atoms is less
than 0.05 eVyA. As the result of a number of conver-
˚
gency tests we have chosen to use a Monkhorst-Pack
8=8=1 k-point sampling of the Brillouin zone and a
340 eV energy cutoff of the plane-wave basis.
In order to test the energy gain or loss of alloy
creation compared to an elemental film we exchange
the topmost W atomic layer with one of the Pt (or Pd)
atomic layers, and let the atomic positions locally relax
perpendicular to the surface according to the Hellmann–
Feynman forces. This procedure allows us to suggest
structures more favorable than the elemental-film struc-
ture, keeping the pseudomorphic structure. As we are
using a 1=1 periodic surface unit cell, the minimum
amount of W we can move is a full atomic layer (0.5
PML). This means that each W atom embedded in the
film has two W atoms among the eight nearest neigh-
bors. Thus, our DFT calculations are more relevant for
comparison with high annealing temperatures than with
the dilute alloys. Studying dilute alloy formation is
possible using larger surface unit cells, but given the
number of DFT calculations needed in this systematic
study, such calculations are at present impractical.
4. Results and discussion
The most direct way of finding the geometrical
structure of a material by DFT calculations is to calculate
the difference in system energy of all viable geometrical
structures. When, as in this case, experimental data
related to the atomic positions exist, the search for
geometrical structures can be restricted to those in
49
J. Block et al. / Thin Solid Films 428 (2003) 47–51
Fig. 2. DFT results: energy differences between the Pt or Pd alloys tested and the elemental films at same coverage (1.5 PML, 2 PML and 3
PML). The configuration of the atomic positions is kept pseudomorphic. A number of the tested alloy structures are sketched. In the sketches,
the gray spheres represent W atoms and the Pt (Pd) atoms are represented by black spheres. In the left-most sketch, the surface unit cell is
indicated. For the elemental films one thickness only (3 PML) is sketched. In the energy curves, the surface unit cell energy is relative to the
energy of the elemental film at the same coverage.
reasonable agreement with experiment. Here, we have
mainly considered pseudomorphic or nearly pseudomor-
phic structures, because the experiments indicate w9x
that up to coverages of approximately 2 PML this is the
probable structure. For the 3 PML Pd film we have also
considered structures not restricted to the pseudomorphic
structure.
By systematically exchanging the top W atom with
one of the Pt or Pd film atoms, and letting the atomic
positions relax locally in the vertical direction, we obtain
the energy difference curves of Fig. 2. A striking result
of the calculations is that the appearance of W atoms in
the topmost two atomic layers of the film is clearly
unfavorable, independent of film thickness or film mate-
rial (Pt or Pd). This is seen by noting that for all film
sizes the two right-most points of the curves, corre-
sponding to exposed W, have larger energies than the
minimum of the respective curve. This theory result is
in excellent agreement with the experimental measure-
ments mentioned above.
50
J. Block et al. / Thin Solid Films 428 (2003) 47–51
We further note that the 1.5 PML coverage both for
Pt and Pd is stable against mixing—all alloys considered
here have larger energy than the elemental film. Our
theory results, however, do not exclude dilute alloys not
described by the 1=1 structure. In the experiments the
change to dilute alloy formation during Pt dosing is
estimated to occur at ;1.7 PML.
The theoretical onset of alloy formation as a function
of coverage differs for the Pt and Pd films. A coverage
as low as 2 PML gives rise to alloy formation for the
Pt film, with the W atomic layer placed in the middle
of the Pt film, right below the Pt surface layer. This
configuration is sketched in Fig. 2. The energy gain
compared to the elemental film is 0.35 eVysurface unit
cell, i.e. 28 meVyA . An even larger energy gain of
2
˚
0.57 eVysurface unit cell (46 meVyA ) is obtained for
2
˚
the 3 PML alloy with the W atomic layer placed right
below the Pt surface layer. In contrast, the curve for 2
PML of Pd shows that ordered alloy formation of the
kind considered here does not take place. At 3 PML
coverage an alloy similar in structure to the Pt film may
form with a modest energy gain of 0.14 eVysurface unit
cell (11 meVyA ).
2
˚
DFT calculations find the zero-temperature ground-
state energy of the system, thus neglecting entropy.
However, the entropy of a Pt(Pd) film mixed with an
atomic layer of W has larger entropy than the elemental
film.
The
finite-temperature
free-energy
difference
between the favorable alloy and the elemental film will,
therefore, be even more pronounced than the energy
difference found by DFT calculations shown in Fig. 2.
On the other hand, alloy structures that according to the
DFT calculations have only slightly higher energy than
the elemental film, (e.g. the 2 PML Pd film, Fig. 2)
may gain enough free energy at high temperatures to be
moderately more favorable than the elemental film.
However, the fact that Pt shows larger energy gains
upon alloy formation than Pd is consistent with the
observation that Pt films on W are found to intermix
and form dilute alloys even during dosing w3,4x, whereas
Pd films must be annealed for alloy formation to occur.
W is a b.c.c. material, while Pt and Pd are f.c.c.
materials; Pt and Pd form b.c.c. structures in the pseu-
domorphic films on W(211). A rearrangement of atomic
positions away from the pseudomorphic structure thus
would not be surprising, particularly for larger film
coverages. To test this possibility for the Pd 3 PML
film, we calculate the energy for all the alloys of Fig.
2, with lateral motion of the atoms allowed (except for
the four lowest ‘bulk’ W-atoms that always have fixed
positions). The lateral change of atomic position is out
of plane in Fig. 2 (in the w111x direction), and we find
¯
that there is no detectable motion of atoms in the
direction across the rows (the w110x direction). This is
¯
the case for all the 3 PML Pd (alloy) films, as well as
for two elemental 1 PML and 2 PML Pt films that were
also considered. To ascertain that the local positional
optimization would not be trapped at a saddle point, the
atomic positions in the w110x direction were perturbed
¯
away from the pseudomorphic position.
In the w111x direction, along the troughs, the atoms
¯
in the upper layers of the film are displaced (compared
to their pseudomorphic positions) to such a degree that
very little structure can be found in the w111x direction.
¯
The change in position in the w111x direction is accom-
¯
panied by vertical contractions and expansions of the
individual atomic layers of up to 40% (0.5 A). The
˚
elemental films tend to create a bilayer structure, where-
as the relaxations of the alloy films are more complex.
Compared to the W bulk structure, however, the overall
contraction of the film is only 0.1–0.4 A.
˚
Although the atomic positions do change also in the
lateral plane, the energy difference curve (not shown
here) is very similar to the Pd 3 PML curve in Fig. 2.
Each of the total energies in the curve is lowered by
approximately the same amount due to lateral motion,
;0.3 eVysurface unit cell, but because all relevant
energies are measured with respect to the elemental film
the curve remains qualitatively the same. The energy
gain for the most favorable alloy increases only by 0.04
eVysurface unit cell, yielding an alloy-elemental film
energy difference (when lateral motion is allowed) of
0.18 eVysurface unit cell compared to 0.14 eVysurface
unit cell without lateral motion.
5. Conclusions
Both experiment and theory indicate that multilayer
films of Pt or Pd on a W(211) surface undergo alloy
formation upon heating in vacuum. The theoretical onset
of alloy formation as a function of coverage differs for
the Pt and Pd films, with Pt films ;2-PML thick
showing evidence for stable alloy formation, whereas a
thicker Pd film (;3 PML) is necessary for stable alloy
formation.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the Swedish Research
Council (VR), the Carl Tryggers Stiftelse, the Swedish
Foundation for Strategic Research (SSF) through the
consortium ATOMICS, and the Swedish Foundation for
International Cooperation in Research and Higher Edu-
cation (STINT). The Rutgers work was supported, in
part, by the US Army Research Office and the US
Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences.
References
w1x T.E. Madey, C.-H. Nien, K. Pelhos, J.J. Kolodziej, I. Abdelre-
him, H.-S. Tao, Surf. Sci. 438 (1999) 191.
w2x K. Pelhos, T.E. Madey, J.B. Hannon, G.L. Kellogg, Surf. Rev.
Lett. 5 (1999) 767.
51
J. Block et al. / Thin Solid Films 428 (2003) 47–51
w3x J.J. Kolodziej, T.E. Madey, J.W. Keister, J.E. Rowe, Phys. Rev.
B 62 (2000) 5150.
w4x J.J. Kolodziej, T.E. Madey, J.W. Keister, J.E. Rowe, Phys. Rev.
B 65 (2002) 075413.
w5x K. Pelhos, I.M. Abdelrehim, C.-H. Nien, T.E. Madey, J. Phys.
Chem. B 105 (2001) 3708.
w6x P. Hohenberg, W. Kohn, Phys. Rev. 136 (1964) B864.
w7x W. Kohn, L.J. Sham, Phys. Rev. 140 (1965) A1133.
w8x B.I. Lundqvist, A. Bogicevic, K. Carling, S.V
. Dudiy, S. Gao,
N. Lorente, S. Ovesson, B. Razaznejad, C. Ruberto, H. Ryd-
berg, E. Schroder, S.J. Simak, G. Wahstrom, Y. Yourdshahyan,
´´
´´
Surf. Sci. 493 (2001) 253.
w9x J.J. Kolodziej, K. Pelhos, I.M. Abdelrehim, J.W. Keister, J.E.
Rowe, T.E. Madey, Progr. Surf. Sci. 59 (1998) 117.
w10x C.Z. Dong, L. Zhang, U. Diebold, T.E. Madey, Surf. Sci. 322
(1995) 221.
w11x C. Ruberto, Y. Yourdshahyan, B.I. Lundqvist, Phys. Rev. Lett.
88 (2002) 226101.
w12x E. Schroder, Comput. Mater. Sci. 24 (2002) 105.
¨
w13x M.V
. Bollinger, J.V
. Lauritsen, K.W. Jacobsen, J.K. Nørskov,
S. Helveg, F. Besenbacher, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2002) 196803.
