Photon-induced chemical vapor deposition of molybdenum on Pt(1 1 1)
Abstract
Temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) have been employed to study the adsorption and photon-induced decomposition of Mo(CO)6. Mo(CO)6 adsorbs molecularly on a Pt(1 1 1) surface with weak interaction at 100 K and desorbs intact at 210 K without undergoing thermal decomposition. Adsorbed Mo(CO)6 undergoes decarbonylation to form surface Mo(CO)x (x ⩽ 5) under irradiation of ultraviolet light. The Mo(CO)x species can release further CO ligands to form Mo adatoms with CO desorption at 285 K. In addition, a fraction of the released CO ligands transfers onto the Pt surface and subsequently desorbs at 350–550 K. The resulting Mo layer deposited on the Pt surface is nearly free of contamination by C and O. The deposited Mo adatoms can diffuse into the bulk Pt at temperatures above 1070 K.
1. Introduction
Platinum is the most widely used metallic catalyst in a direct methanol fuel cell (DMFC). The addition of a second metal to a Pt cathode can significantly modify catalytic properties of the surface
[1]
. Much effort has been focused on preparing bimetallic catalysts and examining their chemical and physical properties. Bimetallic Mo/Pt alloys have emerged as an exceptionally active electrode material for oxidation of methanol in aqueous acidic electrolytes
[2]
.
Several procedures to produce such bimetallic surface have been reported, using bulk alloys, or adsorption of transition-metal atoms onto bulk Pt by physical, chemical or electrochemical means
[1]
,
[3]
. Molybdenum is a highly refractory metal, having a high boiling point; this property imposes a difficulty in physical vapor deposition, for instance, contamination caused by outgassing at elevated temperature
[4]
. This metal deposited on a Pt surface through spontaneous electrochemical deposition invariably showed contamination due to carbon that was difficult to remove
[5]
. In performing UHV experiments, chemical vapor deposition (CVD) was therefore applied to decorate a metal surface with other metals on heating a sample in the presence of their carbonyl complexes. An advantage of a carbonyl complex as a CVD precursor is that the metal has oxidation state zero in such a complex, which hence involves neither reduction nor oxidation, and requires no additional reagent, in the deposition of metal.
In the preparation of a catalyst, the Mo crystal was formed via thermal decarbonylation of Mo(CO)6 on surfaces of partially dehydroxylated alumina
[6]
,
[7]
. Nanoscale Mo clusters were obtained after thermal vapor deposition of Mo(CO)6 on Au(1 1 1); these clusters grew preferentially at elbow sites
[8]
. Ni-Mo alloy was formed upon thermal liberation of CO from Mo(CO)6 on a Ni surface
[9]
. We found that Mo(CO)6 adsorbed molecularly on a Pt surface at 100 K and desorbed at 210 K without thermal decomposition. Photolysis of Mo(CO)6 adsorbed on several metallic surfaces (i.e. Ag, Cu, Rh, and Mo) has been reported
[10]
,
[11]
,
[12]
,
[13]
,
[14]
. In this article, we report that Mo adatoms are deposited on a Pt(1 1 1) surface via photon-induced chemical deposition of Mo(CO)6. We utilized X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) measurements to investigate the variation of surface composition during thermal reaction and photo-induced dissociation of Mo(CO)6, and accordingly elucidated the reaction mechanism.
2. Experiments
Experiments were performed in a UHV chamber (base pressure ∼2 × 10−10 Torr), which was equipped with a quadrupole mass spectrometer and an electron-energy analyzer. A Pt(1 1 1) sample was spot-welded on two Ta wires in turn mounted on a copper block. The Pt sample could be cooled to 100 K with liquid nitrogen via conduction through the copper block and heated resistively. The Pt surface was cleaned through Ar+-sputtering, followed by thermal annealing to 1000 K in an oxygen atmosphere (∼10−7 Torr) to remove residual carbon from the surface. When the surface was further annealed to 1200 K, it exhibited XPS features characteristic of clean Pt, with no evidence for either carbon or oxygen being present.
Before use, the Mo(CO)6 compound (98%, Strem) was purified through sublimation and pumping, and was then introduced onto the Pt surface via a stainless-steel doser that was previously passivated under prolonged exposure of Mo(CO)6. During dosing, the partial pressure of Mo(CO)6 was controlled at 5 × 10−9 Torr; the Pt surface was placed ∼2 cm before the doser to minimize contamination of the UHV system with Mo complexes. A Hg–Xe arc lamp (PTI Inc., 200 W) served as a source of UV light for photon-induced decomposition. A water filter was mounted before the sample to diminish infrared irradiation that might produce heating of the sample. The filtered illumination on the sample was used at a flux ∼0.1 W/cm2. The sample was kept at a temperature below 140 K during exposure to UV light.
XPS measurements were conducted at the wide-range beamline of National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center in Taiwan; the incident angle of the photon beam was 45° from the surface normal. Emitted photoelectrons were collected with an electron analyzer oriented 10° from the surface normal in an angle-integrated mode. For measurements at varied temperatures, the sample was heated to a desired temperature at a rate of 1 K/s and cooled immediately to 100 K, at which time XPS spectra were recorded. Mo(CO)6 is highly sensitive to X-ray irradiation and can undergo photo-dissociation. To suppress interference resulting from photo-dissociation, we completed recording of each XPS spectrum within 2 min, and the probed area of the surface was changed after each XPS measurement.
The quadrupole mass spectrometer, that rendered analysis of desorption products in the TPD measurement, was enclosed in a differentially pumped cylinder, at the end of which is a skimmer with an entrance aperture (diameter 2 mm). For TPD measurement, the sample surface was placed about 2 mm before the aperture and in line of sight of the ionizer of the mass spectrometer; TPD scans were recorded on ramping the sample at a linear rate of ∼2 K/s.
3. Results and discussion
Fig. 1
shows TPD spectra taken from a clean Pt surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 at 100 K for various durations. The signal at m/e = 181 indicates the most abundant fragment in the mass spectrum of Mo(CO)6; its intensity was then recorded for molecular desorption of Mo(CO)6. Only a desorption feature of Mo(CO)6 is observed at 210 K. Desorption of CO (m/e = 28) was also observed with a sharp maximum at 210 K and a broad peak in a temperature range between 350 and 500 K. The former feature characteristic of CO desorption is identical to that of molecular Mo(CO)6 desorption and is thus attributed to fragmentation of desorbed Mo(CO)6 molecules upon electron bombardment in the ionization region of the mass spectrometer. The high-temperature CO desorption feature resembles that of CO chemisorbed on a clean Pt surface
[15]
. The desorption, thus attributed to originate from CO molecules adsorbed on the Pt surface, is discussed later.
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 1. TPD scans of Mo(CO)6 (m/e = 181) and CO (m/e = 28) for a Pt(1 1 1) surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 at 100 K for various durations.
The Pt 4f core-level spectrum is not significantly altered upon exposure of the Pt surface to Mo(CO)6, except its decreased intensity. Thus,
Fig. 2
shows only Mo 3d, C 1s and O 1s spectra that are recorded from a Pt surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 for 60 s at 100 K and subsequently annealed to various temperatures. At 100 K, only a Mo 3d spin–orbit doublet is observed for all durations of exposure, implying that Mo(CO)6 adsorbs molecularly on the surface without fragmentation. A shake-up satellite feature is observed ∼5.5 eV greater than the Mo 3d doublet, which is also seen in C and O 1s spectra. This shake-up process is proposed to involve a transition of metal-to-ligand charge transfer (4d → 2π∗) as observed in the gaseous phase
[16]
.
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 2. XPS spectra of: (a) Mo 3d and (b) C and O 1s for a Pt surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 at 100 K for 60 s and then annealed to various temperatures.
On the sample being heated to 220 K, the Mo 3d peak disappeared because all adsorbed Mo(CO)6 molecules desorbed intact from the surface as shown from TPD data. This behavior indicates that Mo(CO)6 molecules adsorbed weakly on the surface and underwent no thermal reaction. A small proportion of carbon and oxygen that persisted on the surface after desorption of Mo(CO)6 is attributed to adsorbed CO molecules. Adsorbed CO might originate from CO as an impurity in the Mo(CO)6 sample, rather than decarbonylation of Mo(CO)6, as XPS data show no Mo-containing species left on the surface after a sample had been heated to 220 K. CO that is inevitably present in equilibrium with a Mo(CO)6 solid sample was introduced onto the surface while dosing Mo(CO)6, even though the Mo(CO)6 solid sample was subjected to prolonged evacuation before use. The CO molecule can adsorb at two adsorption sites (on-top and bridge) on Pt(1 1 1) with binding energies 534.1 and 532.4 eV of O 1s and 286.9 and 286.1 eV of C 1s, respectively
[17]
,
[18]
, as shown in
Fig. 2(b)
. The XPS intensities of C and O 1s became gradually attenuated on annealing the sample above 350 K and completely disappeared at 570 K. Their disappearance corresponds to desorption of CO in a range 350–500 K (as shown in
Fig. 1
).
UV radiation is known to induce the photo-dissociation of an adsorbate, and the resulting fragments can undergo thermal decomposition upon subsequent heating, rather than desorption of intact adsorbate
[10]
.
Fig. 3
shows XPS spectra of Mo 3d, C 1s and O 1s for a Pt surface after exposure to Mo(CO)6 for 60 s at 100 K and subsequent irradiation with UV light for various durations. The intensities of Mo 3d, C 1s and O 1s due to absorbed molecular Mo(CO)6 decreased with increased duration of UV irradiation. New Mo-containing species that formed, having Mo 3d electrons at large binding energies, are attributed to Mo subcarbonyl species (Mo(CO)x, x ⩽ 5), which were generated via photon-induced liberation of CO from Mo(CO)6. In previous work involving measurement of IR and UV–vis spectra, Mo subcarbonyl species were proposed to form upon adsorption and thermal decomposition on dehydroxylated alumina at 298 K
[19]
.
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 3. XPS spectra of: (a) Mo 3d and (b) C and O 1s for a Pt surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 for 60 s at 100 K, followed by exposure to UV irradiation for various durations.
Upon exposing Mo(CO)6 to UV light, the chemical shift of Mo 3d to larger binding energy resulted from the decreased coordination number and altered conformation of Mo and its CO ligands. A dative bond is known to form in metal-carbonyl complexes, which purportedly involves electron donation from 5σ of CO into an unfilled metal orbital and a back π-bonding donation from a filled metal orbital into an empty CO 2π∗ orbital
[20]
. The extent of this bonding that affects significantly the electronic density on the center metal is consequently related to the binding energy of its core electron. UV irradiation causes liberation of CO ligands from Mo(CO)6, resulting in a decreased coordination number of Mo to CO ligands; their bonding configuration also alters. As a result, the electronic density of the Mo atom is diminished and the binding energy of Mo 3d increases. In contrast to the chemical shift of Mo 3d, the C and O 1s core-level electrons of Mo(CO)x shift to smaller binding energy as shown in
Fig. 3(b)
. The integrated intensities of C and O 1s decreased because adsorbed Mo(CO)6 underwent decarbonylation upon UV exposure.
Fig. 4
shows TPD scans of CO (m/e = 28) taken from a Pt surface that had been exposed to Mo(CO)6 for 60 s at 100 K and subsequently irradiated with UV light for various durations. The intensity of the CO feature at 210 K, due to an ionization fragment of molecular Mo(CO)6 desorption, decreased with increased UV exposure. This behavior is consistent with the argument that UV irradiation can induce decarbonylation of adsorbed Mo(CO)6 molecules. Furthermore, two CO desorption features appear with a sharp feature at 285 K and a broad feature over a temperature range 350–550 K. The intensity of the former desorption feature initially increased with increased duration of UV exposure but then decreased on prolonged duration. As described previously, an intermediate Mo(CO)x formed via photon-induced decarbonylation of Mo(CO)6. We propose that the desorption feature at 285 K originates from thermal decarbonylation of Mo(CO)x. The total amount of CO in Mo(CO)3 increased initially with increased UV exposure but eventually decreased on prolonged UV exposure because Mo(CO)x was also subject to further photon-induced decarbonylation to form lower subcarbonyl Mo complexes.
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 4. TPD scans of CO (m/e = 28) recorded from a Pt surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 for 60 s at 100 K, followed by exposure to UV irradiation for various durations.
The broad feature of CO desorption at 350–550 K, which resembles that of CO absorbed on a clean Pt surface, is attributed to desorption of CO impurity in Mo(CO)6 as described previously. However, the integrated area of CO desorption obtained from the Mo(CO)6-covered Pt surface after UV irradiation was significantly greater than that without UV irradiation. This additional CO desorption may indicate that a fraction of the CO ligands in Mo(CO)x intermediate transfers onto the Pt surface during thermal decarbonylation and subsequently desorbs at the same temperature as observed on the CO desorption from a clean Pt surface.
On the other hand, for the decarbonylation of Mo(CO)6, formation of Mo(CO)3 as a relatively stable species is supported by quantitative measurement of the amounts of CO evolved during activation of a catalyst at 373 K
[21]
. In addition, removal of all CO ligands from Mo(CO)6 was completed at temperatures above 573 K
[20]
,
[22]
. Thus, an alternative mechanism could be proposed, according to which the CO desorption at 285 K originates from decarbonylation of Mo(CO)x into Mo(CO)3 whereas the broad CO desorption at 350–550 K is mainly due to further thermal decarbonylation of Mo(CO)3 into Mo (Mo(CO)3 → Mo + 3CO).
Fig. 5
shows TPD scans in which a Pt surface was exposed to Mo(CO)6 for varied durations and then irradiated with UV light for a constant duration 60 s. At small coverage, only a CO desorption band was observed between 350–550 K, whereas the additional CO desorption feature appears at 285 K for large exposures and increases with increased exposure of Mo(CO)6. For submonolayer coverages, the fraction of photons adsorbed in Mo(CO)6 decomposition is insignificant relative to the total number of incident photons during UV exposure. Thus, the extent of photo-decomposition of Mo(CO)6 is independent of the Mo(CO)6 coverage at a fixed duration of UV exposure. If the thermal decarbonylation of Mo(CO)x proceeds through an intermediate of Mo(CO)3, the ratio of desorption of CO generated from decarbonylation of Mo(CO)x at 285 and 350–550 K, respectively, is expected not to vary with the coverage for a constant UV exposure. The amount of the latter CO desorption was obtained by integrating the desorption peak and subtracting it from that obtained without UV irradiation. The resulting ratio increased with increased duration of exposure (coverage) (as shown in
Fig. 5
). In addition, the ratio obtained at a large duration of Mo(CO)6 exposure (200 s) is ∼1.3, which is greater than the maximum stoichiometric proportion (0.67) expected from the decomposition Mo(CO)x via a Mo(CO)3 intermediate. Thus, a better explanation for CO desorption is the first mechanism, in which Mo(CO)x decomposes to form an Mo adatom and releases all CO ligands in one step, instead of proceeding through a metastable intermediate. At small coverages, the released CO ligand transfers onto the Pt surface and subsequently desorbs at 350–550 K. At greater coverage, fewer empty sites on the Pt surface are available for CO adsorption and a smaller fraction of released CO transfers onto the surface. The CO ligands released from Mo(CO)x decomposition can either directly evolve or transfer onto the Pt surface.
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 5. TPD scans of CO (m/e = 28) recorded from a Pt surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 at 100 K for various durations, followed by exposure to UV irradiation for 60 s. Dashed lines serve to highlight desorption features.
Fig. 6
shows XPS spectra of Mo 3d, C and O 1s for a Pt surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 for 60 s at 100 K, irradiated with UV light for 100 s, and then heated to various temperatures. On annealing the UV-irradiated surface to 270 K, the intensity of C and O 1s assigned to Mo(CO)6 decreased due to desorption of intact Mo(CO)6. Between 270 and 370 K, the intensity of C and O 1s signals gradually decreased, and these signals shifted toward smaller binding energy, resulting from decarbonylation of Mo(CO)x. Furthermore, Mo 3d became a partially resolved doublet because Mo(CO)x decarbonylated to form Mo adatoms, based on the preceding argument. At higher temperature, the surface CO gradually desorbs and the peak width of Mo 3d doublet becomes smaller. Upon the sample being annealed to 670 K, surface CO are completely desorbed and C and O 1s XPS data show that the resulting Mo layer was nearly free of carbon and oxygen. In addition, the Mo 3d feature became an intense and well resolved doublet with d5/2 binding energy 228.1 eV and an asymmetric tail at the high-energy side, which is characteristic of metallic Mo. However, we also found that a Mo film was obtained from photon-induced decomposition of a thick physisorbed Mo(CO)6 multilayer and contained C and O impurities.
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 6. XPS spectra of: (a) Mo 3d and (b) C and O 1s for a Pt surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 for 60 s at 100 K, followed by exposure to UV irradiation for 100 s and annealed to various temperatures.
Upon the resulting Mo-deposited sample being annealed to ∼1000 K, the XPS spectrum of deposited Mo 3d was unaltered, indicating no formation of Mo nanoparticles, as has been proposed for the thermal vapor decomposition of Mo(CO)6 on Au
[23]
,
[24]
. The total intensity of the Mo 3d signal decreased and a new Mo 3d component was observed with d5/2 binding energy 229.2 eV, on annealing the sample beyond 1070 K, as shown in
Fig. 7
. Diffusion of Mo into bulk Pt has been proposed to attain a solubility limit (saturation), resulting in formation of a PtMo2 alloy
[4]
. This new feature is thus attributed to subsurface Mo formed on diffusion of deposited Mo into bulk Pt. This Mo-deposited Pt surface serves as a model surface in our continuing studies of Mo/Pt electrocatalysts of a fuel cell, in which we compare thermal desorption and decomposition of CO and methanol on Mo-covered and Mo/Pt alloy-covered Pt surfaces.
Download: Download full-size image
Fig. 7. Thermal evolution of Mo 3d for a Pt surface exposed to Mo(CO)6 for 60 s at 100 K, followed by exposure to UV irradiation for 100 s and annealing at 670, 1070 and 1120 K.
4. Conclusion
On the basis of TPD and XPS measurements, we investigated adsorption, desorption, and photon-induced decomposition of Mo(CO)6 on a Pt surface. Molecular Mo(CO)6 adsorbs weakly on a Pt surface at 100 K and desorbs intact at 220 K without thermal decomposition, but Mo(CO)6 can decarbonylate to form subcarbonyl Mo(CO)x species under UV irradiation. At 285 K, Mo(CO)x undergoes further thermal decarbonylation to form a surface Mo adatom in a one-step fashion (Mo(CO)x → Mo + xCO). The CO ligands released from Mo(CO)x decomposition can either desorb directly or transfer onto the Pt surface. At 670 K, all Mo(CO)x species are thermally decomposed to form atomic Mo with desorption of CO. This layer of deposited Mo is nearly free of carbon and oxygen. Diffusion of resulting Mo adatoms into bulk Pt begins at temperatures above 1070 K.
Acknowledgment
For support we thank NSRRC and National Science Council under Grant No. NSC92-2113-M-003-025.