<quotes>
[1] "Among many investigated material families, vanadium phosphate (VPO) is identified as the best oxybromination catalyst, as it provides selectivity for CH3Br up to 95% and stable operation for over 100 hours on stream."
[2] "The emerging conventional and non-conventional natural-gas reserves,which contain copious amounts of methane (7599 mol%), but also of ethane (115 mol%) and propane (110 mol%), offer an exciting potential as a feedstock for value- added chemicals and fuels110."
[3] "However, currently less than 10% of the global natural-gas production is used for the manufacture of commodities and the rest is burned for heating, transport and electricity-generation purposes1,2."
[4] "The key to accomplish this micro-level spatiotemporal management of the complex heterogeneous gas-phase network is to find a catalyst that is able to oxidize HBr, but is inert with respect to the CH bonds of the carbon-containing molecules."
[5] "In fact, the oxyhalogenation of light alkanes, which has a long history dating back to the first half of the 20th century20, has been forecast as the most cost-effective technology for natural-gas upgrading1."
[6] "The oxybromination tests performed over many phosphates show that, besides the previously reported FePO4 catalyst18, Cu3(PO4)2, CrPO4 and VPO are highly active in this reaction. In fact, VPO provided the highest yield of the brominated compounds with negligible CO2 productivity and thus emerged as the best catalyst among all the investigated systems."
[7] "This marked increase in activity is attributed to the absence of water inhibition when using dry HBr instead of its aqueous solution."
[8] "To rationalize the performance differences of various catalyst classes, we studied their behaviour in the reactions that are proposed to constitute the key descriptors for the ultimate product distribution in the oxybromination of methane (Fig. 4)."
[9] "Nevertheless, the selectivity for the bromomethanes over the studied oxides was seriously conflicted by CO2 generation, especially over RuO2 and CeO2."
[10] "An increase in the total pressure from 1.4 to 1.8 bar led to an increase in the methane conversion. Nevertheless, the Pareto-like dependence of the selectivity for CH3Br on CH4 was preserved."
[11] "The results for ethane and propane suggest that the reaction network is even more complex than that of methane, probably induced by the higher affinity of higher alkanes and the corresponding bromoalkanes to the catalyst surface."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Vanadium phosphate (VPO) is identified as the best oxybromination catalyst due to its high selectivity for CH3Br (up to 95%) and stable operation for over 100 hours on stream.
2. Natural gas reserves, containing methane, ethane, and propane, offer potential as a feedstock for value-added chemicals and fuels.
3. Less than 10% of global natural gas production is used for commodity manufacturing, while the majority is burned for heating, transport, and electricity generation.
4. Achieving micro-level spatiotemporal management in the gas-phase network requires finding a catalyst that oxidizes HBr while being inert to CH bonds in carbon-containing molecules.
5. Oxyhalogenation of light alkanes has been forecasted as the most cost-effective technology for natural-gas upgrading.
6. Vanadium phosphate (VPO) provided the highest yield of brominated compounds with negligible CO2 productivity, making it the best catalyst among the investigated systems.
7. The increased activity of catalysts is attributed to the absence of water inhibition when using dry HBr instead of its aqueous solution.
8. Various catalyst classes' performance was studied based on their behavior in reactions that determine the product distribution in the oxybromination of methane.
9. Oxides showed serious conflict in selectivity for bromomethanes and CO2 generation, especially over RuO2 and CeO2.
10. Increasing total pressure led to an increase in methane conversion, but the selectivity for CH3Br on CH4 remained Pareto-like.
11. The reaction network for ethane and propane is more complex due to the higher affinity of higher alkanes and their corresponding bromoalkanes to the catalyst surface.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 磷酸钒（VPO）被识别为最佳氧溴化催化剂，因为它对CH3Br的选择性高达95%，并且在连续运行100小时以上时表现出稳定的操作。
2. 含有大量甲烷、乙烷和丙烷的常规和非常规天然气储备具有作为附加值化学品和燃料潜在原料的吸引力。
3. 全球天然气生产中用于商品制造的比例不到10%，其余部分用于取暖、运输和发电。
4. 实现复杂气相网络的微观空间时间管理需要找到既能氧化HBr又能对碳分子中的CH键保持惰性的催化剂。
5. 预计轻烷烃的氧卤化是天然气升级最具成本效益的技术之一。
6. 磷酸钒（VPO）提供了最高的溴化产物产率，并且几乎不产生二氧化碳，因此在所有研究系统中脱颖而出，成为最佳催化剂。
7. 催化剂活性增加的原因归因于使用干燥HBr而不是其水溶液时不存在水分抑制。
8. 对各种催化剂类别的性能进行了研究，这些性能基于它们在甲烷氧溴化反应中决定最终产物分布的反应行为。
9. 氧化物显示出选择性差和CO2生成严重冲突，特别是RuO2和CeO2上。
10. 压力的增加导致了甲烷转化率的提高，但CH3Br对CH4的选择性保持了帕累托似依赖关系。
11. 由于更高烷烃及其相应的溴烷基化合物对催化剂表面的更强亲和力，乙烷和丙烷的反应网络更复杂。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
