I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
LangmuirVol 16/Issue 13Article Cite Share Jump to Expand RESEARCH ARTICLEMay 24, 2000 Surface Characterization of Li-Modified Platinum/Tin Catalysts for Isobutane Dehydrogenation Mnica L. CasellaGuillermo J. SiriGerardo F. SantoriOsmar A. FerrettiMara Magdalena Ramrez-Corredores View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract The superficial properties of different Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, modified by the addition of tin and/or lithium, were studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), scanning electron microscopy, BET, and 2-propanol transformation. The results obtained were correlated with the behavior of the catalysts in applied reactions such as the dehydrogenation of isobutane. To obtain very well defined bimetallic superficial phases, tin was introduced by means of surface organometallic chemistry on metals techniques and the nature of the bimetallic-active sites so obtained was compared with the ones prepared by conventional procedures. XPS measurements indicate that tin is present in both zeroth valent and oxidized states. The addition procedure of both tin and lithium has a marked influence on the characteristics of the surface of the catalysts. The order in which lithium is added generates solids having different properties in relation to texture, dispersion, and catalytic behavior, for both Pt and PtSn systems.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  2000 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Bimetals Catalysts Lithium Platinum X-Ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy
Centro de Investigacin y Desarrollo en Procesos Catalticos (CINDECA), Universidad Nacional de La Plata.
Departamento de Ingeniera Qumica, Facultad de Ingeniera, Universidad Nacional de La Plata. * Corresponding author: Dr. Osmar A. Ferretti, CINDECA, 47 No. 257, C.C. 59, B1900AJK La Plata, Argentina. Phone: 54-221-421-0711. Fax: 54-221-425-4277. E-mail: ferretti@dalton.quimica.unlp.edu.ar.
Introduction Most of the light molecular weight olefins are mainly produced by thermal and catalytic cracking processes but also from catalytic dehydrogenation. The increase in isobutene matches the increment in the demand for methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE), motivated by the necessity of producing reformulated or oxygenated gasoline. 1,2 Platinum-based mono- and bimetallic catalysts supported on γ-Al2O3 are broadly used in dehydrogenation processes. The operating conditions imposed by thermodynamics to carry out the catalytic dehydrogenation of paraffins to olefins lead to catalyst deactivation. The process is endothermic, which requires high temperatures, a fact that besides representing a high energy cost, promotes the appearance of undesirable side reactions, such as the formation of carbonaceous deposits and light products. Pt/γ-Al2O3 is a very active catalyst for isobutane dehydrogenation, but its drawback is the simultaneous formation of light products. At the same time, deactivation of the catalyst due to carbonaceous deposits is very high. Also, the acidity of the alumina used as support catalyzes the undesirable cracking and isomerization reactions.3-5 Obviously, a need for selectivity and stability improvement exists.
The addition of tin has an important effect on the selectivity toward the dehydrogenation reaction, at the expense of hydrogenolysis reactions, by decreasing the size of platinum ensembles needed. The addition of tin has also been suggested to improve the stability of the catalytic systems by decreasing the adsorption energy of coke precursors, increasing their mobility so that they can migrate easily to the support. Preparation techniques play a significant role in controlling the type of materials obtained. Surface organometallic chemistry on metals (SOMC/M) leads to well-defined bimetallic catalysts whose active sites have high homogeneity in their nature. 6-13 On the other hand, improving selectivity also requires inhibiting the acid-catalyzed reactions on the support (isomerization, polymerization). The acid sites of the alumina support may be poisoned by adding alkaline metal ions. 14,15 The aim of this work is to correlate X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) information from different Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalysts, modified by the addition of tin and/or lithium, with their behavior in the dehydrogenation of isobutane. To obtain well-defined bimetallic catalysts, tin was introduced by means of SOMC/M techniques and the bimetallic catalysts so obtained are compared to the conventional ones. Also studied is the influence of the order in which lithium is added on the characteristics of the catalyst.
Experimental Section A commercial γ-Al2O3 (Cyanamid Ketjen) crushed to a size of 60100 mesh, was used as support. Before impregnation, it was calcined at 823 K for 3 h. A solution of H2PtCl6 having a concentration so as to obtain 1% w/w Pt exchanged was added onto the γ-Al2O3. The solid was repeatedly washed, dried at 378 K, calcined in air at 773 K, and reduced in flowing H2 at the same temperature. The monometallic Pt/γ-Al2O3 catalyst so obtained was denoted Pt. Bimetallic catalysts were prepared using different deposition techniques of the metallic precursors. Samples designated PtSn SI were prepared introducing platinum first, as H2PtCl6, and then tin as SnCl2. The PtSn OM catalyst series was obtained by employing SOMC/M techniques. The Pt catalyst was reacted with tetra-n-butyltin in n-heptane solution under H2 atmosphere at 363 K. Elimination of all the organic moieties with a reduction treatment under H2 flow at 773 K gave rise to the bimetallic phase PtSn/γ-Al2O3. Lithium was added in two different sequences: In one case (LiB catalysts) γ-Al2O3 was impregnated with an aqueous solution of LiOH, then after drying and calcination, the metallic precursors were added. In the other case (LiA catalysts), lithium was introduced on the reduced Pt and/or PtSn catalysts. After the reduction step, all the catalysts (monometallic, bimetallic, with and without Li) were washed several times with NH3 solution (0.1 M) at room temperature, to obtain a chlorine concentration under 0.1% in the resulting solids. Table 1 summarizes the composition and methods of preparation of the different studied catalysts.
Table 1. Composition and Methods of Preparation of Studied Catalysts catalyst Pt(wt%) Sn(wt%) Li(wt%) methodofpreparation Pt 0.96     H2PtCl6aqueoussolutiononγ-Al2O3 PtLiB 0.90   1.0 H2PtCl6aqueoussolutiononlithiumimpregnatedγ-Al2O3 PtLiA 0.96   1.0 LiOHaqueoussolutiononPtcatalyst PtSnOM 0.96 0.32   SnBu4inn-C7solution(SOMC/M)onPtcatalyst PtSnOMLiB 0.90 0.27 1.0 SnBu4inn-C7solution(SOMC/M)onPtLiBcatalyst PtSnOMLiA 0.96 0.32 1.0 LiOHaqueoussolutiononPtSnOMcatalyst PtSnSI 0.96 0.27   SnCl2aqueoussolutiononPtcatalyst PtSnSILiB 0.90 0.25 1.0 SnCl2aqueoussolutiononPtLiBcatalyst PtSnSILiA 0.96 0.27 1.0 LiOHaqueoussolutiononPtSnSIcatalyst Hydrogen chemisorption measurements were performed in pulse dynamic equipment with catharometric detection, considering a stoichiometry of adsorption H/Pts = 1. The specific surface area (BET method) was determined by N2 adsorption (T = 77 K), using Micromeritics equipment. Micrographs were obtained by using a Philips 505 scanning electron microscope. Samples of 100 mg of γ-Al2O3 with and without lithium were tested in the 2-propanol dehydration reaction at atmospheric pressure in a flow reactor. The alcohol was fed to the reactor in a nitrogen stream (30 cm3 min-1). The reaction temperature ranged between 373 and 673 K. Reaction products were analyzed by gas chromatography, using a 1.2 m column packed with Carbowax 20 M on Chromosorb W and a flame ionization detector. XPS analyses were obtained with the surface analysis system from Leybold-Heraeus (LHS-11) equipped with a Al Kα (1486.6 eV) X-ray source. Prior to analysis, all the samples were reduced under H2 atmosphere and mounted onto a manipulator which allowed the transfer from the preparation chamber into the analysis chamber without exposure to air. The binding energy (BE) of the C 1s (284.6 eV) peak was taken as an internal standard. Peak intensities were estimated by calculating the integral of each peak after subtraction of the S-shaped background and fitting the experimental peak to a Lorentzian/Gaussian mix of variable proportion.
Catalytic activity for isobutane dehydrogenation was measured in a conventional flow reactor at atmospheric pressure, 823 K, total feed flow of 50 cm3 min-1, and a H2/iso-C4H10 ratio of 3. The composition of the feed flow and of the reaction products was analyzed by gas chromatography, using a Carlo Erba Fractovap series 2150 gas chromatograph on line with the reactor. A 1/4 in. o.d. stainless steel column, 6 m in length, packed with tricresyl phosphate on Chromosorb W, operated at 353 K was employed in this work.
Results and Discussion The values of the specific surface area (Sg), measured by the BET method, are presented in Table 2. An important decrease in Sg values is observed when lithium is added after the metallic precursors impregnation. This decrease is in the order of 2030 m2 g-1 and is similar to that obtained when γ-Al2O3 is doped with the same Li amount. When the metallic phase is incorporated on the Li-modified support, the initial Sg value of the support is approximately recovered. This is a fact that can be assigned to the acid media existing during impregnation of H2PtCl6 (pH  2), discarding that the loss in the Sg value of Li-modified support could be a result of a sintering process of the γ-Al2O3.
Table 2. Textural Properties and Chemisorption Capacity of Studied Supports and Catalysts sample Sg(m2·g-1) H/Ptat/at γ-Al2O3 185 Li/γ-Al2O3 160 Pt 185 0.36 PtLiB 195 0.09 PtLiA 160 0.34 PtSnOM 210 0.10 PtSnOMLiB 205 0.02 PtSnOMLiA 165 0.13 PtSnSI 200 0.11 PtSnSILiB 205 0.04 PtSnSILiA 170 0.10 Table 2 also shows the results of H2 chemisorption for some of the catalysts, reported as the hydrogen to platinum atomic ratio (H/Pt). Two effects may be distinguished, that caused by the addition of tin and that by the action of the addition of lithium. When tin is added on Pt catalysts, a large decrease in chemisorption capacity is observed, as has been previously published. 15,16 The effect of lithium is strongly dependent on the way in which it is added. For the LiB samples, in which lithium is added before the incorporation of the metallic precursors, the total quantity of chemisorbed hydrogen strongly decreased, both for the monometallic as well as for the bimetallic catalysts. The lower dispersion of the metallic phase can be attributed to modifications of the support textural and acid properties.
The changes in support acidity due to the addition of lithium were evident when the activity for 2-propanol dehydration was evaluated. From the expected products, the main yield was propylene (selectivity over 80%) but also small quantities of isopropyl ether and acetone were obtained. In Figure 1 the conversion is shown as a function of temperature, for different supports. A drop in the dehydrating activity of γ-Al2O3 is observed when it is doped with lithium. As shown in Figure 1, for lithium contents higher than 1%, there is no further modification of the dehydrating capacity of the γ-Al2O3. For instance, the temperature increases from 465 K for γ-Al2O3 to 600 K for Li-doped γ-Al2O3 (Li content 1 or 2%) in order to obtain an 2-propanol conversion of 50%.
Figure 1 Influence of the reaction temperature (K) on the conversion of 2-propanol for γ-Al2O3 and γ-Al2O3 modified with different Li contents: () γ-Al2O3; () 0.1% Li; () 0.3% Li; (·) 1% Li; () 2% Li.
The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) micrographs of γ-Al2O3 and Li-doped γ-Al2O3 are presented in Figure 2. As can be seen, the alumina support suffers an important modification in its texture when it is impregnated with lithium, probably due to the melting effect of LiOH whose melting point is 723 K. The catalyst activation temperature is higher than the melting point, so patches are generated on the γ-Al2O3 surface, as observed in the micrographs.
Figure 2 SEM micrographs (scale bar = 1 μm): (a) γ-Al2O3; (b) γ-Al2O3 modified with 1% Li.Figure 3 shows XPS spectra of lithium-modified monometallic catalysts (PtLiA and PtLiB), in the region of Pt 4d5/2 (314.6 eV). This secondary line was chosen considering the overlapping of the Pt 4f lines with Al 2p line. The Pt signal of PtLiB sample is quite more intense than that of the PtLiA catalyst, giving (Pt/Al)XPS ratios of 0.94 and 0.22, respectively. These results seem to be coherent with the values of dispersion measured by H2 chemisorption for the same samples as shown in Table 2. Thus, they could be interpreted in terms of the textural modifications of the support, following Len's proposals. 17 Most likely, the promoter on the PtLiB catalysts has not been homogeneously distributed, but instead deposited onto the external surface of the material grains, due to the changes in the textural characteristics observed by SEM, for instance, pore plugging due to the melting of LiOH. The same behavior was obtained for the PtSn bimetallic catalysts modified by the addition of lithium.Table 3 summarizes the results of binding energies (BE) for the studied catalysts. Although the complexity of these catalytic systems does not allow the extraction of many conclusions, it is observed that for Li-modified catalysts, the BE of Pt 4d5/2 is shifted from the value corresponding to Pt/γ-Al2O3, indicating a modification of the electronic density on platinum atoms.Figure 3 XPS Pt 4d5/2 region of the following catalysts: (a) Pt; (b) PtLiA; (c) PtLiB.Table 3. Binding Energies (BE) (eV) for the Studied Catalysts, with Reference C 1s at 284.6 eV (Lithium Content 1% w/w Li) catalyst C1s Pt4d5/2 Al2p Sn3d5/2 Li1s Pt 284.6 314.8 74.4 PtLiA 284.6 314.1 74.2   54.7 PtLiB 284.6 315.4 74.0   54.2 PtSnOM 284.7 313.6 74.3 484.6
486.5
PtSnOMLiA 284.6 313.8 74.1 484.6 54.5
486.5
PtSnOMLiB 284.7 314.4 74.1 484.6 54.3
486.5
PtSnSI 284.5 313.4 74.1 486.3 PtSnSILiA 284.6 315.6 74.1 486.3 54.3 PtSnSILiB 284.6 314.7 74.0 486.2 53.3 The addition of tin causes a decrease in the BE of the Pt 4d5/2, which is more noticeable in those catalysts prepared via SOMC/M. This larger decrease in BE could be associated with an increase in the electronic density of the platinum atoms, a very important fact concerning the catalytic behavior of these organometallic systems. The oxidation state of tin and the possibility of alloy formation between Sn and Pt after the reduction step is often a point of controversy and seems to depend on the catalyst preparation method used. The results presented in Table 3 show that the PtSn OM catalyst has two peaks in the region corresponding to Sn 3d5/2 at 484.6 and 486.5 eV, assigned to Sn(0) and Sn(II,IV), respectively. This fact is not observed in the other bimetallic samples (PtSn SI), for which the Sn 3d5/2 signal is resolved as a narrow peak centered around 486.3 eV. These results are clearly indicating the influence of the preparation procedure upon the superficial characteristics of the catalysts. As a difference with PtSn/γ-Al2O3 catalysts obtained by using conventional techniques, in catalysts prepared via SOMC/M a signal due to Sn(0) can be undoubtedly detected. XPS results for PtSn SI systems are in agreement with data previously published for PtSn/γ-Al2O3 catalysts obtained by impregnation with SnCl2 and H2PtCl6 ; 18-21 in the cases there presented, the only important peak is that corresponding to ionic tin (486487 eV). Balakrishnan and Schwank assigned the presence of ionic tin to the existence of a very stable Al,Sn mixed oxide (probably an aluminate).18 Bacaud et al. studied the same system by Mssbauer spectroscopy and observed large amounts of Sn(II) and Sn(IV) species and an important fraction of isolated platinum, corroborating the lack of specificity of the conventional preparation methods. 22 These conventional preparation procedures lead to detectable quantities of Sn(0) only when using supports such as SiO2 or C. 18,23 The deconvolution of the Sn 3d5/2 peak for the PtSn OM sample showed the contribution of Sn(0) (484.5 eV) and Sn(II,IV) (486.4 eV) species (see Figure 4 and Table 4). The presence of metallic Sn could be taken as an indication that part of the tin is probably forming a PtSn superficial alloy. Five stable alloys are known for PtSn systems: Pt3Sn, PtSn, Pt2Sn3, PtSn2, and PtSn4. 24 For the PtSn OM studied catalyst, and taking into account that the dispersion of the platinum phase is 0.36 as measured by hydrogen chemisorption, the atomic ratio for Sn(0)/Ptsuperficial would be around 0.4; this would be compatible with an active phase composed of a superficial alloy PtSny with y  0.4 (i.e., Pt3Sn) interacting with ionic tin located in the metalsupport interphase, as previously proposed for RhSn/SiO2.12 Figure 4 XPS Sn 3d5/2 region for PtSn bimetallic catalysts.
Table 4. Deconvolution of Sn 3d5/2 Peak of PtSn OM Catalyst BE(eV) species %
484.6 Sn(0) 34
486.5 Sn(II,IV) 66
All the prepared catalysts were tested in the isobutane dehydrogenation reaction and the results, measured after 4 h on stream, are gathered in Table 5. Pt/γ-Al2O3 presents the highest reaction rate, but a very low selectivity toward isobutene, due to the important contribution of cracking and isomerization reactions. In relation to the catalytic behavior, additional evidence is the influence of the addition procedure employed to incorporate lithium: PtLiA catalyst shows almost the same level of global activity as the Pt catalyst with an important cracking activity, probably caused by the modification of the electronic properties of platinum atoms introduced by lithium, as observed by XPS. As could be foreseen, the presence of lithium on PtLiA catalysts provokes a strong diminution of isomerization reactions. On the other hand the PtLiB sample has a lower global activity than PtA, which could be explained in terms of the lower dispersion, measured by H2 chemisorption (see Table 2). In relation to cracking reactions, PtLiB shows a similar behavior to the Pt sample, while isomerization reactions are strongly penalized. These results are indicating that the lithium concentration, as chosen from the 2-propanol dehydration reaction, was adequate in order to avoid isomerization reactions.
Table 5. Results of Catalytic Performance in the Isobutane Dehydrogenation (for Experimental Conditions, See the Text) catalyst Scracking Sisobutene Sisomerization r(mmol·gPt-1·s-1) Pt 0.20 0.53 0.27 2.5 PtLiA 0.34 0.57 0.10 2.1 PtLiB 0.20 0.75 0.05 1.2 PtSnOM 0.03 0.78 0.19 1.8 PtSnSI 0.04 0.88 0.08 1.0 PtSnOMLiA 0.00 0.97 0.03 1.7 PtSnOMLiB 0.01 0.99 0.00 1.0 PtSnSILiA 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.5 PtSnSILiB 0.05 0.93 0.02 0.3 Whatever the preparation procedure employed (SI or OM), the addition of tin produces a catalytic material having an important selectivity toward isobutene. However, OM samples present higher activity, which can be explained in terms of the specific interaction between Pt and Sn in these PtSn samples derived from the use of SOMC/M techniques. In these materials tin is present in both metallic and oxidized states, as determined by XPS. The BE shift indicates a close interaction between platinum and tin species, Sn(0) and Sn (II, IV) leading to bimetallic catalysts (PtSn OM) with better properties (high activity and selectivity to isobutene) than the conventionally prepared catalysts. The selectivity to isomerization products is almost unaffected, indicating that, due to the specificity of SOMC/M techniques, tin might not be modifying the support acidity. Indeed, metalmetal interactions seems to be favored by the SOMC/M methods, inhibiting in this way the waste of metal promoter by direct interaction with the support material. Bimetallic catalysts prepared by successive impregnation, on the contrary, present a strong diminution in the isomerization reactions compared to the monometallic catalyst. Obviously then, some of the tin is deposited on the support, blocking its acid sites, during these preparations.
The effect of lithium addition on the bimetallic systems is similar to what was observed for the monometallic catalysts: (i) PtSn LiB systems present a much stronger inhibition of isomerization reactions than PtSn LiA systems; in fact, these reactions are almost extinguished. (ii) lithium added after the incorporation of the metallic precursors (PtSn LiA catalysts) generates a system with a markedly higher activity that PtSn LiB catalysts.
In Figure 5 the evolution of the catalytic activity is presented as a function of time on stream for the nonpromoted monometallic catalyst (Pt/γ-Al2O3), for PtSn OM, and for the system that showed the best global performance (PtSn OM LiA). As can be observed, the activity decay along the reaction time is more pronounced for Pt/γ-Al2O3 than for PtSn OM LiA catalyst, especially at the beginning of the analysis. The main cause of deactivation for both systems is coke formation, and their different behavior must be assigned to the presence of tin in the multimetallic catalyst. Tin, besides inhibiting the formation of coke due to the blocking of active sites, may be responsible for the diminution of coke rate deposition by means of an electronic effect. In fact the increase of the electronic density on the platinum atoms (observed by XPS) causes the decrease of the interaction between coke precursors and the active site. Figure 5 clearly shows the improvement achieved in the stability of the Pt catalysts when a formulation PtSn OM LiA is obtained via SOMC/M preparation. This catalyst can be submitted to several sequential cycles of deactivationregeneration, recovering the same level of initial activity each time. 25 The stability of the PtSn OM catalysts during the cycles of deactivationregeneration is a very important property, especially taking into account that conventional preparations lead to SnO2 segregation during the calcination in oxygen (analogous to the regeneration step). 26 Finally, it can be said that two promoters, Sn and Li, are required for high activity, selectivity, and stability in the isobutane dehydrogenation reaction.
Figure 5 Dehydrogenation activity as a function of time for the following catalysts: () Pt; () PtSn OM; () PtSn OM LiA.
Conclusions On the monometallic platinum catalysts, XPS results indicate that when lithium is added after the metallic precursor (PtLiA catalyst), a system having an important dispersion is obtained. In this case, platinum presents an important modification in its electronic properties. When lithium is added before the metal precursor compounds, the dispersion of the resulting systems is markedly lower, due to the modification of the textural properties and of the acidity of the support. This lower dispersion is responsible for a lower catalytic activity, for both mono- and bimetallic catalysts (series LiB).
The addition of tin improves the selectivity toward isobutene, whatever the preparation procedure employed. When tin is selectively deposited on platinum (via SOMC/M), the resulting material exhibits zeroth valent and oxidized states of tin. A close interaction occurs between Pt and Sn species as evidenced by a XPS BE shift. This interaction leads to bimetallic catalysts (PtSn OM) having better properties (selectivity to isobutene and stability) than the conventional ones.
Finally, the presence of both tin (added via SOMC/M) and lithium in the PtSn OM LiA sample resulted in a catalyst having high activity and stability in the dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutene, with an almost complete inhibition of undesired reactions (cracking and isomerization).
Author Information Authors Mnica L. Casella - Centro de Investigacin y Desarrollo en Procesos Catalticos (CINDECA) and Departamento de Ingeniera Qumica, Facultad de Ingeniera, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, calle 47 No. 257, CC59, B1900AJK La Plata, Argentina Guillermo J. Siri - Centro de Investigacin y Desarrollo en Procesos Catalticos (CINDECA) and Departamento de Ingeniera Qumica, Facultad de Ingeniera, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, calle 47 No. 257, CC59, B1900AJK La Plata, Argentina Gerardo F. Santori - Centro de Investigacin y Desarrollo en Procesos Catalticos (CINDECA) and Departamento de Ingeniera Qumica, Facultad de Ingeniera, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, calle 47 No. 257, CC59, B1900AJK La Plata, Argentina Osmar A. Ferretti - Centro de Investigacin y Desarrollo en Procesos Catalticos (CINDECA) and Departamento de Ingeniera Qumica, Facultad de Ingeniera, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, calle 47 No. 257, CC59, B1900AJK La Plata, Argentina Mara Magdalena Ramrez-Corredores - INTEVEP S.A., Catlisis Aplicada, Apdo. 76343, Caracas 1070A, Venezuela


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 