<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific information on how the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance. However, it does discuss the quantum chemical study of mechanisms for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane on vanadium oxide, which is of great interest in industrial catalysis. The study found that the potential energy surface has large barriers, which are lowered somewhat when the possibility of a triplet state is considered. The barriers on the reaction pathway are 45-80 kcal/mol above the energy of the reactants, which are much larger than found experimentally for propane ODH on supported vanadia. The highest energy on the reaction pathway of 80 kcal/mol corresponds to an oxygen vacancy at the O(3) site on the V2O5 surface, which forms when a water molecule is desorbed. The barriers for propane adsorption and propene elimination are also large (45-60 kcal/mol). Some of the barriers may be reduced by consideration of more complex reactions, such as a concerted reaction involving adsorption of O2 during water elimination. The reduction of other barriers, such as for propane adsorption, appear to require the involvement of a support for the vanadium oxide catalyst.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供具体信息，说明金属基催化剂（包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石）的组成、结构和反应条件如何影响烷烃转化的机制和效率，特别是在氧化脱氢和沸石催化反应等过程中，以及哪些因素对它们的工业意义有贡献。但是，它确实讨论了关于钒氧化物上丙烷氧化脱氢机制的量子化学研究，这在工业催化中具有极大的兴趣。研究发现，势能面有大的能垒，当考虑三重态的可能性时，能垒会有所降低。反应途径上的能垒比反应物的能量高45-80 kcal/mol，这比实验中在支撑的钒酸盐上发现的丙烷ODH大得多。反应途径上80 kcal/mol的最高能量对应于V2O5表面上O(3)位点的氧空位，当水分子解吸时形成。丙烷吸附和丙烯消除的能垒也很大（45-60 kcal/mol）。一些能垒可以通过考虑更复杂的反应来降低，例如在水消除过程中涉及O2吸附的协同反应。降低其他能垒，如丙烷吸附，似乎需要催化剂中钒氧化物的支撑。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
