I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Figure 24 XRD (Cu Kα) of MCM-41 samples with different pore diameter.
Figure 25 Correlation between the unit cell parameter (a0) of MCM-41 and the crystallization time.
2. Indirect Synthesis
Practically at the same time that researchers from Mobil discovered the synthesis of the mesoporous materials M41S, MCM-48, and MCM-50 by using surfactants and a solubilized silica source, Kuroda et al. 261,262 reported the preparation of highly ordered mesoporous FSM-16 materials derived from a layered polysilicate. In this case a mesoporous silica with uniform pore size was prepared by ion exchange of interlayer Na ions of the layered polysilicate kanemite for surfactants. The benefit of using kanemite is due to the fact that this layered material is extremely flexible owing to the relatively low degree of polymerization in its structure, as it is demonstrated by the high Q3/Q4 ratio observed by 29Si MAS NMR (3:1). Then, upon intercalation with the surfactant the highly flexible sheets of kanemite are folded and cross-linked to each other to form the three-dimensional framework (Figure 26). 263 In agreement with this mechanism, the pore size could be changed by varying the alkyl chain length of the surfactant, and a more precise pore-size control was achieved by trimethylsilylation of the inner surface of the pores. 264 Figure 26 The model of folding silicate sheets of kanemite.
The high pH used in the ion exchange of the surfactant molecules at which silica from the kanemite can in fact be dissolved reveals the distinct possibility that, essentially, this synthesis procedure is the same as that previously reported by Mobil researchers, in the sense that kanemite was just a source of silica. However, recent studies of FSM-16226,263,265 have shown that despite the fact that MCM-41 and FSM-16 have similar pore size and surface areas, their mechanism of formation is different. Indeed, the MCM-41 is formed from a silicate anion initiated liquid crystal templating mechanism, while the layered silicate derived materials are formed by intercalation of the layered silicate using the surfactant present in the synthesis mixture. 266 Rheological data on the surfactant solutions used to form both materials indicate the presence of micelles in the MCM-41, while no micelles were observed at the low surfactant concentrations used with the layered silicates. There is a particularly interesting study which follows the formation of silicasurfactant mesophases by real time in situ X-ray powder diffraction. 267 These authors clearly demonstrate the different synthesis mechanism for MCM-41 and FSM-16, by finding evidence for the formation of an intermediate lamellar silicasurfactant intercalate during the synthesis starting from kanemite, whereas no intermediate phases are observed during the formation of MCM-41 by the direct synthesis. Vartuli et al.226 found that the pore size distribution is broader in the case of FSM-16, where the total pore volume and hydrocarbon sorption capacity is about 5 times higher in the case of the MCM-41 materials. On the other hand, due to a higher degree of condensation in the silica walls in the FSM-16, this has a higher thermal and hydrothermal stability than MCM-41.266 It can be then concluded that FSM-16 and MCM-41 are probably different materials, and further detailed characterization will be necessary in order to see possible advantages of each one of them for different applications.
B. Synthesis of Mesoporous Molecular Sieves Containing Elements Other Than Silica
The success achieved in preparing silica mesopores was the starting point for using the concept to produce materials with potential catalytic applications. The first of which was to produce mesoporous acid materials which could be used for cracking large molecules present in vacuum gas oil and residues. Thus, in order to produce acidic mesostructured materials, MCM-41 and MCM-48 with walls of silica-alumina, where the Al was tetrahedrally coordinated, were synthesized.231,268-271 In general, it appears from the XRD data that the introduction of Al on the walls during the synthesis decreases the order in the material. 269,272 It has been claimed that the order could be improved in the presence of aluminum, if instead of SiO2 one uses sodium silicate as the Si source for the synthesis. 273,274 However, it should be taken into account that in this synthesis, a part of the aluminum is not incorporated as AlIV but remains as AlVI, and consequently, the framework Si/Al ratio in the walls is much lower than the one given by the chemical analysis. On the contrary, we believe that the apparent worse XRD pattern obtained when introducing aluminum, is not a result of a less ordered material but due to the formation of smaller crystallites of MCM-41. The precise nature of the aluminum source can also play, an important role on the type of final incorporated species obtained.272 For instance, it has been claimed that when Catapal alumina or sodium aluminate is used, virtually all the Al in the solid is hexacoordinated. In contrast by employing instead aluminum sulfate or aluminum isopropoxide, MCM-41 can be easily prepared with Al in tetracoordination. While this is true in general terms, it has to be pointed out, that it is possible, regardless of the aluminum source, to incorporate all of it as AlIV if the synthesis conditions are properly optimized.
In Table 9 we have summarized the most significant reports highlighting the synthesis variables for the incorporation of Al into the wall of MCM-41.
Table 9. Reports on the Incorporation of Al to the Structure of MCM-41 author sourceofAl Si/Al OHef/SiO2 Na/Al Alcoordination Reddy,K.M. (SO4)3Al2 25 0.10 4.32 tetrahedral (C3OH7)3Al 25 0.22 4.32 tetra+octa Al2O3·xH2O 25 0.22 4.32 octahedral Luan,Z. (SO4)3Al2 2.560 11.5(ph) notspecified tetrahedral NaAlO2 15 11.5(ph) notspecified tetra+octa Alorthophospate 15 11.5(ph) notspecified tetra+octa Alacetylacetonate 15 11.5(ph) notspecified tetra+octa Alisopropylate 15 11.5(ph) notspecified tetra+octa Al2O3·xH2O 690 11.5(ph) notspecified octahedral Schmidt,R. NaAlO2 8.5 0.26 1.4 tetrahedral Borade,R.B. NaAlO2 2 0.31 1.1 tetrahedral Owing to the importance of the incorporation of Al in a tetrahedral coordination in the walls of MCM-41 for its final catalytic properties, we decided to carry out a synthetic investigation in which the most important variables, i.e. OH/SiO2, Na/Al, and alumina source, were systematically varied (Table 10). When the results were plotted (Figure 27), it could be clearly seen that when the aluminum source is polymeric (pseudobohemite), the incorporation of Al in the framework of the MCM-41 decreases with decreasing OH/SiO2 ratio in the gel. It appears that for OH/SiO2 < 0.13 not all the alumina is depolymerized in AlO2- species, and consequently, it will be impossible to incorporate all the aluminum in the framework as AlIV. Thus, consequently in those synthesis where one needs to work at pH values below 0.13, sodium aluminate has to be used if the purpose is to introduce all Al as AlIV.Figure 27 Influence of the OH/SiO2, and alumina source on the ratio of AlIV/AlIV+AlVI in the MCM-41 formed.Table 10. Effect of the Compositional Synthesis Variables on the Incorporation of Al in MCM-41 Al-MCM-41 Al2O3·xH2O NaAlO2 Al Al(C3OH7)3 Al15 Al4 Al8 Al9 Al7 Al6 Al5 Al14 Al10 Al13 Al11 Al12 Al16 OHef/SiO2 0.30 0.19 0.19 0.19 0.16 0.10 0.08 0.06 0.16 0.08 0.16 0.16 0.17 Na/Ala 3.3 0 0 3.6 0 0 0 1.9 1.1 1.1 0 0 2.4 Si/Alb 15.8 12.8 16.1 14 15.8 13.5 18.5 13.7 15.7 13.4 14.6 18 13.6 Altetr 0.2 1 1 0.1 1 0.9 0.66 0.1 1 1 1 1 0.75 Altetr/Aloct ppcc(%) 15.1 20.0 19.6 11.9 22.5 19.0 19.4 8.0 23.3 19.8 19.0 20.0 16.7 aRatio in gel.bRatio in the solid cWeight lost at temperatures above 300 C.It can also be observed that if the level of Na+ in the synthesis gel is too high (Na/Al  1.9) the isomorphic substitution of Si for Al is impeded, regardless of the Al source. For instance, a sample prepared from aluminum isopropoxide at a OH/SiO2 ratio for which the incorporation of Al as AlIV would be complete in absence of Na+, only 75% of the Al was incorporated when Na+ was introduced in a Na/Al ratio of 2.4. When pseudobohemite is used as a source of aluminum and the Na/Al ratio is increased up to a value of 3.6, only 10% of the total aluminum is incorporated as AlIV (Table 10).Attempts have also been made to prepare samples with a high aluminum content. In this direction, it has been suggested271,274 that MCM-41 with a Si/Al ratio of 4 can be prepared using sodium silicate and sodium aluminate as sources of Si and Al, respectively. However, the 27Al MAS NMR of such samples indicates that this particular MCM-41 contains significant quantities of aluminum within octahedral coordination. More recently, Borade and Clearfield 275 have synthesized MCM-41 with Si/Al ratios as low as 2 without observing the presence of octahedral aluminum by 27Al MAS NMR, using sodium aluminate and fumed silica as the sources of aluminum and silicon, respectively.Even though, it is possible to prepare low Si/Al ratio MCM-41 and MCM-48 samples with the aluminum being tetrahedrally coordinated, what is important, from a catalytic point of view, is the amount of AlIV left after the calcination procedures necessary to activate the catalysts. In this sense, it appears that after calcination at temperatures above 500 C the intensity of the NMR peak corresponding to tetrahedral aluminum decreases, while AlVI is formed.268,276-278 The results can be explained by assuming that upon calcination the AlIV either becomes distorted or is removed from the aluminosilicate structure. Experiments indicate that when calcined samples are subjected to deep hydration the NMR peak of tetrahedral aluminum can be restored. In our opinion it is more likely that a part of the original AlIV whose coordination was distorted by the thermal treatment could be restored by hydration, but it is certainly true that there is also a part of the aluminum which came out of the silicate structure and which remains as AlVI.If the introduction of Al in the mesostructure was important from the point of view of acid catalysis, it is also very important to introduce, transition metal elements such as Ti, V, and Cr in order to prepare mesoporous catalysts with redox properties. Following the interest stemming from the synthesis of Ti-zeolites and their application as selective oxidation catalysts 279-281 it was thought that it would be of great interest to incorporate Ti in mesoporous MCM-41, for reasons of its activity in oxidation reactions while allowing larger molecules to diffuse. 282 Thus Ti was incorporated in a mesoporous structure by direct synthesis working in absence of alkaline ions and using a cationic282 or a neutral surfactant. 283,284 It was demonstrated by means of UVvis spectroscopy and EXAFS that Ti was not in the form of anatase, but it was incorporated into the silicate wall, in the form of isolated tetrahedrally coordinated titanium, with some small amount of dimers of the type TiOTi also identified to be present. 285,286 TiSiMCM-41 materials were active catalysts for reactions which will be described later such as the epoxidation of olefins and oxidation of sulfides to sulfoxides and sulfones. Titanium has also been introduced by direct synthesis in a MCM-48 structure, using TEOS and tetraisopropyl titanate as the sources of Si and Ti, respectively. 287,288 Vanadium-containing MCM-41 structures could also be used as a selective oxidation catalyst, as far as the vanadium atoms were incorporated into the silicate walls and isolated one from another. This has also been achieved, 287,289 as 51V NMR demonstrated the presence of vanadium in the framework of the MCM-41. Raman and NMR methods have been further used to support the above conclusions proving that V2O5 was not present.Finally, it has also been intended to introduce Cr in the structure of MCM-41.287 However, unlike Ti, only a few Cr3+ ions, similar to what occurs in zeolites, 290 will properly substitute isomorphously for Si in the walls, as was proven by the fact that when the Cr-MCM-41 was washed with diluted acetic acid, approximately half the amount of Cr is depleted from the sample.Mesoporous manganosilicates having hexagonal, cubic, and lamellar structures have been synthesized at a low surfactant/Si ratio (0.12), and with a broad range of Mn/Si ratios (0.00040.09). 291,292 The phase formed depends on temperature and NaOH content, but the addition of Mn ions induced the formation of the cubic phase also at low surfactant to Si ratio. With respect to the state of the Mn in the resultant material, it appears from EPR studies that at room temperature it is located in the walls or interface region of the mesoporous materials. Unfortunately after calcination, the manganese ions migrate into the pores.From the mechanism of formation of mesostructures, it should be possible, in principle, by the adequate selection of a cationic or anionic surfactant, to synthesize a large variety of metal oxide/surfactant composite materials. One can easily imagine the interest of these types of materials in catalysis just by considering the benefit of a stable mesoporous alumina with very high surface area as catalyst support, or the preparation of a high surface area zirconia with regular pores that can act as a catalyst support, 293 and also as zirconia-based solid acids.1,295-297 If a mesostructure of pure TiO2 could be prepared, it will certainly be of use not only as a support but also for application in photocatalytic processes.The first attempt to form mesostructured pure oxides other than SiO2 was done with tungsten, iron, and lead. In this case, even though the mesostructure was formed, attempts to remove the surfactant within the channels caused the pore structure to collapse. 298 A similar approach to alumina-based mesoporous material, resulted in the formation of lamellar phases.233 However, very recently Yada et al. 299 have found that an aluminum-based dodecyl sulfate mesostructured material with a hexagonal framework can be obtained by the homogeneous precipitation method using urea and converted into a mesoporous alumina with some structural disorder but with the hexagonal structure of its retained principal framework. So far the results show that after calcination at 600 C the washed composite solid with hexagonal structure is deorganized into a completely disordered form but preserves the narrow distribution of pores. If the calcination is done at 1000 C the material is converted into α- and γ-alumina. When calcination was avoided and the anionic surfactant was removed by washing with ethanol or acetone, the hexagonal structure collapsed. This collapse could be avoided if a mesostructure of alumina was formed via SI and NI pathways. This has been very recently shown, and mesoporous alumina molecular sieves have been prepared by a NI assembly process. 300 Three forms of mesoporous aluminas, named MSU-1, MSU-2, and MSU-3, have been prepared by the hydrolysis of tri-sec-butoxyaluminum at room temperature in the presence of nonionic polyethylene oxide (PEO) surfactants. PEO- based surfactants adopt spherical to long wormlike micellar structures in aqueous solution, and the wormlike structure is hence adopted by the MSU-X alumina structures. However, even if the channels in MSU-X are more or less regular in diameter, they have no discernible long-range order, unlike the MCM-41 structure.300 The walls of the channels in the case of MSU-X are larger for aluminas than for silicas, resulting in lower surface areas (420535 m2 g-1) for the former. The coordination of aluminum in the as-synthesized samples corresponds to AlIV, AlV and AlVI, AlVI being dominant. After calcination at 500 C the 4- and 5-coordinations increase at expense of the AlVI sites.Alumina mesophases have also been synthesized by reacting aluminum alkoxides and carboxylic acids with controlled amounts of water in low molecular weight alcohol solvents. These materials give after calcination high surface area alumina (up to 710 m2 g-1) with pores in the mesopore region centered around 2.0 mm. However, in this case the pores were not ordered within any type of symmetry. 301 Further work should be done on these aluminas, and to particularly test them as supports for preparing HDS and hydrogenation catalysts, as well as, when conveniently doped, for base-catalyzed reactions.As mentioned above, it is of considerable interest for catalysis to prepare large surface area mesoporous zirconia, and therefore, it is not surprising that this has been studied by several groups. Schth et al. 302 were the first reporting on the synthesis of mesoporous zirconia, while Hudson and Knowles 303 have shown that cationic quaternary ammonium surfactants can be used to prepare zirconia in the mesoporous range. The authors have pointed out that the conventional templating mechanism of mesopore formation is not operative in their case, and a scaffolding mechanism was invoked in order to explain the ordering. The pore size distribution increases with the chain length of the surfactant, and BET surface areas of 240360 m2 g-1 can be obtained depending upon the chain length of the incorporated surfactant. What can be of interest from the viewpoint of the catalytic use of these materials as zirconia-sulfated solid acids, is the observation that it is possible to prepare them in the form of tetragonal zirconium(IV) oxide, by calcination at 650 C. The one-step preparation of sulfated mesoporous zirconia with good acidic properties has been performed by using lauryl sulfate as surfactant. This preparation route could avoid further synthetic wet steps after the synthesis. 304 The samples prepared with high concentrations of this surfactant (SZ-848) give, after calcination at 575 C, a broad tetragonal zirconia XRD fingerprint, while mesoporosity was not lost. The resulting samples were indeed active for low temperature n-butane isomerization and cracking.Up to this point we have described synthetic routes to mesoporous zirconia which are based on expensive alkoxides, relying alternatively on the sulfate ion to link the surfactant and zirconium, or do not involve self-assembly. There are however two new synthesis routes which involve: a self-assembly of a soluble zirconia precursor with an amphoteric surfactant template, 305 and a neutral amine route. 306 The amphoteric surfactant, cocamidopropylbetaine (CAPB), which has quaternary ammonium and carboxylate groups, can bond to both negatively and positively charged inorganic species. Additional benefits arising from this surfactant is that it does not need a bridging anion for the formation of the surfactantZr complex, and can also be used in a wide pH range. Thus, when the synthesis is carried out at low pH, the quaternary ammonium group of CAPB is positively charged, the carboxylic group is protonated, and the positively charged inorganic species attack to the surfactant by reaction with the carboxyl group. Concurrent surfactant bonding with the inorganic component and aggregation of the micellar structures leads to formation of the hexagonal mesophase305 (Figure 28). This work opens new possibilities in mesoporous synthesis specially for those involving cationic inorganic species.Figure 28 Proposed amphoteric surfactant templating route for hexagonal mesophase formation where the carboxylate group provides for the bonding of the surfactant with the inorganic species and the quaternary ammonium group maintains a large head group area for hexagonal mesophase formation.When zirconia mesostructures were prepared with neutral amines, lamellar phases were obtained using C8 to C16 alkylamines. However, these lamellar phases changed to a hexagonal structure when water was introduced in the reaction mixture.In the case of titania mesoporous solids, only partial success has been obtained in preparing stable surfactant-free materials. A hexagonal phase of mesoporous TiO2 was prepared with alkyl phosphate surfactants, 307 in which the alkyl phosphate could be partially removed from the pores, with the phosphate units being retained in the oxide phase. Others 308 have used a neutral surfactant (decyl- or hexadecylamine), together with titanium alkoxide in a mixture of isopropyl alcohol and water. After aging at room temperature for 18 h or in a hydrothermal treatment at 90 C for 18 h, mesoporous structures with pores of 2.9 and 3.2 nm for decylamine and hexadecylamine surfactants, respectively, were obtained. Unfortunately, removal of the amine from the pores, either thermally or by using solvents, results in the destruction of the mesoporous structure. More success was obtained when the surfactant was partially removed in an acidified dilute alcohol medium.308 By using an anionic surfactant such as sodium dioctylsulfosuccinate (AOT), it was possible to obtain a mesostructure SnO2-AOT. However, it has not been possible up to now, to remove the template without destroying the mesophase.308 Before finishing the chapter devoted to the synthesis of mesoporous molecular sieves, two novel mesoporous compounds should be introduced. In one case, the authors 309 proposed that since there are microporous aluminophosphates (AlPOs), it also could be of interest and benefit to extend the liquid crystal templating approach to the synthesis of mesoporous AlPO4. They used long-chain primary and tertiary amines, but at the present time only lamellar AlPO4 materials were obtained which did not allow template removal without structural collapse.In an analogous way and from the prior knowledge achieved in vanadium phosphorous oxides (VPO) containing micropore 310 and lamellar compounds formed by intercalation of organic molecules, 311-313 a novel three-dimensional ordered mesoporous VPO has been successfully synthesized. Using n-tetradecyltrimethylammonium chloride as surfactant, and VOHPO4 and heating at 76 C for 48 h, a layered structure was formed which contained the surfactant. When this was suspended in water and hydrothermally treated at 170 C for 48 h, the layered VPO was transformed into another mesoporous material with hexagonal structure. The evolution in this case bears same resemblance to the synthesis of MCM-41 from kanemite, in the sense that the surfactant remaining in the layer forms a micelle in water and forces the layer to bend. We do not know from the report if the mesoporous VPO compound remains stable after removing the surfactant.In conclusion, it can be said that despite a period of very intensive work over the last two years in the synthesis of mesoporous molecular sieves using liquid crystals as templates, the field is in its infancy. Still much effort is needed in many cases to produce samples in which the surfactant could easily be removed and recovered without losing order or even destroying the pore structure. Furthermore it will be of great scientific interest and practical use to synthesize well-structured mesoporous materials with a tridirectional system of communicating channels which will enhance the diffusivity of bulky reactants and products. Finally, it is easy to understand that the synthesis of mesoporous materials of the M41S type but with crystalline microporous walls will generate highly thermally stable systems with a well-defined bimodal pore system will certainly be of much interest for catalytic and membrane applications. In any case, it is possible to forecast that the possibilities for synthesizing new materials based on these concepts is immense and only limited by the scope of our imagination.
C. Characterization of Mesoporous Molecular Sieves
When one suspects that a mesoporous molecular sieve has been synthesized a well-established methodology must be followed to demonstrate that this is indeed the case. The procedure involves, first, the use of XRD and synchrotron X-ray powder diffraction which should be carried out at low angles. The XRD powder d spacings of well-prepared MCM-41 and MCM-48 (Figure 29) can be indexed on a hexagonal and cubic lattice, respectively.225,314-318 XRD combined with other techniques, such as HRTEM,220,225 electron diffraction,220 and lattice images, 319 have been key methods for the characterization of these materials and identification of the phase obtained, i.e. cubic (MCM-48), hexagonal (MCM-41), and lamellar (MCM-50). From a combination of these techniques, two structural models with an amorphous wall have been constructed for MCM-41 as shown in Figure 30. 320 Figure 29 Powder X-ray diffraction paterns (Cu Kα) of as prepared MCM-41 (hexagonal), MCM-48 (cubic), and MCM-50 (lamellar) materials.
Figure 30 Structural model of MCM-41 with cylindrical pore (A) and hexagonal pore (B).
In model A, a cylindrical pore structure, with a lattice constant of 4.46 nm and a wall thickness of 0.84 nm, was proposed by Feuston and Higgins319 by a classical molecular dynamics simulation approach. The authors simulate 103104 atoms to model MCM-41 and analyzed models with different lattice constants and wall thicknesses. When comparing their simulation with experimental values, they found that the simulated X-ray patterns of amorphous silica with wall thickness larger than 1.1 nm agreed well with the experiments. The percentage of silicon in the form of silanols obtained from the model (1728%) also agrees fairly well with the observed diffraction pattern. It has to be pointed out, however, that an inverse relationship between the diameter of the micelle template and the wall thickness of the pores was found. Thus, decreasing the template diameter leads to thicker walls between hexagonal packed cylindrical pores. For model B, a hexagonal pore structure with an interpore distance of 3.5 nm was proposed by Behrens et al. 321 Both the cylindrical and hexagonal pore structures have been visualized by HRTEM. 322 A unified model based on the void fraction and structure of nanoporous materials structures has been proposed by Garcs. 323 The author reduces the pores to spheres, plates, and cylinders with dense shells and inner cores. Most of the material mass is assigned to the surfaces of the geometrical forms with empty spaces inside. This gives rise to a single sphere representing the structure. The radius of the empty interior space is adjusted so the void in the center matches experimentally found void fractions. When this model is applied to MCM-41, the author finds that a spherical fits most closely, which implies that instead of smooth cylindrical channels, the pores of MCM-41 can be seen as spherical cages connected by narrower necks.
Adsorption of molecules has been widely used to map the pore size distribution of solid catalysts. In this sense the physisorption of gases such as N2, O2, and Ar have been used to characterize the porosity of M41S samples and more specifically MCM-41. 324-327 When adsorption was carried out on a MCM-41 sample with 4.0 nm pore diameter (Figure 31), it was found that the isotherm for N2 is type IV in the IUPAC classification, and no adsorptiondesorption hysteresis was found at the boiling temperature of N2 (77.4 K). In the case of Ar and O2 the isotherm is also of type IV, but they exhibit well-defined hysteresis loops of the VI type. These results can be attributed to capillary condensation taking place within a narrow range of tubular pores with effective width of 3.34.3 nm, 328 confirming both the high degree of pore uniformity and the dimension of the pore determined by HRTEM.325 Further adsorption studies under different experimental conditions and on samples with different pore diameters showed that the presence and size of the hysteresis loop depend on the adsorbate,325 pore size, 329,330 and temperature. 331 In this respect, no nitrogen hysteresis loops were found for materials with pore sizes of 2.54.0 nm, but a nitrogen isotherm on a 4.5 nm material showed hysteresis. Finally, adsorption of cyclopentane at different temperatures showed that the presence and size of hysteresis depends on the temperature.
Figure 31 Adsorption isotherm of nitrogen (a), argon (b), and oxygen (c) on MCM-41 at 77K. Different symbols denote different runs; filled symbols denote desorption.
These samples with monodispersive pore channels represent a beautiful model for standardizing adsorption measurements and methods for characterization of porous solids. 332 In fact, when N2 adsorption isotherms are modeled using nonlocal density functional theory (NLDFT) over a wide range of pore sizes (1880 Å), it is found326 that the theoretical thermal dependence of the thermodynamic adsorptiondesorption hysteresis predicted by NLDFT is confirmed by the experimental measurements.
We have here then a type of material with a regular pore structure in the mesoporous region where the pore diameter cannot only be perfectly measured by gas adsorption, but the materials themselves can serve as models for adsorption of gases in porous solids. Owing to the success of N2 and Ar adsorption in terms of the determination of the pore diameter, one can combine the XRD results together with the pore size determined from gas adsorption experiments to find the thickness of the wall. When this is done, it is found that in the regular MCM-41 samples the wall thickness varies little around 1.0 nm. We will see later that the value can be changed, having as a consequence important implications on the stability of the sample.
Adsorption studies, besides their convenience for measuring the textural properties of these materials, can also be used to study the interaction of molecules with the walls of the pores, a feature of particular importance from the point of view of the diffusion and catalytic properties of the material. In this sense, adsorption studies of polar and nonpolar molecules can be quite useful for measuring the hydrophobic and hydrophilic properties of M41S mesoporous materials. When H2O was adsorbed at 297 K on a MCM-41 sample, 333 the isotherm obtained showed a fairly narrow hysteresis loop but with no identifiable B. The isotherm is of type V in the IUPAC classification, indicating relatively weak adsorbentadsorbate interactions. From these results,333 one would conclude that the MCM-41 surface is quite hydrophobic, with an uptake of water similar to that given by hydroxylated silica and many carbons. 334 This conclusion is nevertheless surprising if one considers the high number of silanol groups present in these materials. However, the hydrophobic character of MCM-41 has been clearly demonstrated by carrying out the adsorption of cyclohexane and water, and benzene and H2O. 335,336 The results obtained show that while in a hydrophilic zeolite, such as faujasite, large amounts of benzene and H2O are adsorbed, when the same adsorbates were used on a sample of siliceous MCM-41, much larger amounts of benzene than H2O were adsorbed. This adsorption characteristic is of vital importance when reactants with different polarities, for instance H2O or H2O2 and olefins, have to react and certainly it will control the rate of the diffusionadsorption reaction in those cases.
Another powerful technique for the characterization of M41S mesoporous materials is NMR spectroscopy. Its benefits include the determination of the pore size and the mechanism of formation of the material, to the study of the diffusion of molecules in the pores, and finally, to the organization of the walls in the pure silica and in the isomorphous substituted materials, before and after calcination pretreatments.
A large amount of effort was directed at inferring the pore size distribution of solids from NMR relaxation time data (T1 and T2). 337-339 Recently, interesting work on MCM-41 has been published, 340 in which the effect of pore size on the freezingmelting transition of water confined in porous materials has been investigated using 1H NMR. In this work, 1H NMR intensity vs temperature data of water confined in MCM-41 materials with different pore sizes were obtained. Thus, by comparing the NMR, with N2 adsorption and HRTEM results, a correlation between freezing point depression of frozen pore water, ΔT, and the pore radius (Rp) was established, with this shown to have the following form: ΔT = Kf/(Rp  tf); where tf and Kf are constants. The authors tentatively proposed the tf factor to be identical to the thickness of a nonfreezing pore surface water. This method thus allows the determination of pore size distribution in materials with pore diameters larger than 1.0 nm, from 1H NMR intensity vs temperature measurements of water-saturated porous materials. There is no doubt that this is a valuable method for the people working on catalysis and adsorption who need to know the effective pore diameter of the solids.
In the case of MCM-41 materials, the self-diffusion coefficient of water was derived 341 from NMR spinecho experiments using the CarrPurcellMeiboomGill pulse sequence 342 and a model proposed by Doussal and Sen. 343 It has to be pointed out that the found diffusion coefficients (D) are somewhat surprisingly, of the same order as the value for the diffusion of water in ferrierite determined by molecular dynamics 344 (0.8 × 10-6 cm2 s-1). The authors explain the rather small diffusion coefficient, relative to bulk water (2 × 10-5 cm2 s-1), by a strong interaction of water molecules with the pore surface. This, however, would be in contradiction with the small interaction with the walls observed (recall the hydrophobic nature of the MCM-41) during adsorption experiments.
It has to be noted that most of the NMR work has been performed to determine the state of Si and Al in the walls of the M41S materials, with some incursion into the mechanism of formation.236 We have already described in a previous section how 27Al MAS NMR was used as a technique to follow the incorporation of aluminum in the walls of the M41S materials. In this sense, the first studies231,268 of the Bloch decay (BD) and cross polarization (CP) 29Si NMR spectra of two MCM-41 samples with relatively low (28) and high (189) SiO2/Al2O3 ratios indicated (Figure 32) that while in the first sample some Si (2Si, 2Al) and Si (3Si, 1Al) sites were present, in the high-silica MCM-41 material practically all sites correspond to Si(4Si) with very little Si (3Si, 1Al). When the sample containing more Al was calcined, a substantial intensity loss of the Si (2Si, 2Al) and Si (3Si, 1Al) occurred, while octahedral aluminum appeared (Figure 32); these results could be explained by assuming that upon calcination dealumination occurs. Similar results were obtained in B-MCM-41. 345 It is important to bear in mind these results when considering using these materials for acid-catalyzed reactions, in which the Brnsted acidity should be associated to the presence of tetrahedral aluminum.
Figure 32 (a) Bloch Decay (BD) and cross polarization (CP) 29Si MAS NMR spectra of MCM-41. The CP spectra were recorded with the optimum contact times. (b) BD and CP 27Al MAS NMR spectra of MCM-41. Note the different intensity scaling factors for the BD spectra of the uncalcined samples. Asteriks denote spinning side bands.
The acidity of Al-containing MCM-41 samples has been measured by adsorptiondesorption of bases such as pyridine and NH3.231,269 The calcined silicoaluminate samples have both Brnsted and Lewis acidity as determined by pyridine adsorption269 (Figure 33), and the amount of Brnsted acidity increases with the aluminum content of the sample.269 When the acidity of silicoaluminate MCM-41 was compared with that of a USY and an amorphous silica-alumina, it was found (Figure 34) that the acid strength of the MCM-41 is weaker than in the zeolite and appears more similar to that of an amorphous silica-alumina.269 From these results, we can conclude that the MCM-41 silicoaluminate corresponds closely, from the point of view of its acidity, to amorphous silica-alumina with regular pores.
Figure 33 IR spectra of MCM-41 samples (a) hydroxyl range, (b and c) pyridine adsorbed on high Al content, S1 (b), and low Al content, S2 (c) samples and desorbed in vacuum at different temperatures: (1) 423 K; (2) 523 K; (3) 623 K.
Figure 34 TPD NH3 spectra of USY (1), calcined S1 sample (2), and amorphous silica alumina (3).
In the case of the transition metal-substituted M41S samples, their principal interest resides in their potential use as oxidation catalysts, with this particularly true for the Ti- and V-substituted MCM-41 materials.269,289 In these two cases, the isomorphous substitution and, therefore, the incorporation of these elements in the framework is not easy to ascertain, and hence, a combination of several techniques is required to provide the necessary information. In the case of Ti-substituted MCM-41, spectroscopic and catalytic techniques should be used to show the incorporation of Ti in the silica framework. Previous work on the characterization of Ti-zeolites 346,347 can be used as a guide for characterizing the Ti-MCM-41 samples. Thus, an IR absorption band at 960 cm-1 attributed to SiOTi stretching with Ti in tetrahedral coordination 348 was used to identify the incorporation of Ti in zeolites and, similarly, has also been used to show the presence of Ti in the framework of Ti-MCM-41. However, this has been questioned280 on the basis of more recent IR studies on as-made and calcined Ti-β-zeolite, the authors of which have concluded that the band at 960 cm-1 can instead be due to the SiO stretching vibration in the SiOR group, R being H+ in the calcined state and TEA+ in the as made material. Thus, we have to say that while all the properly prepared Ti-zeolites and Ti-MCM-41 show the presence of this band, the reverse is not neccesarily true.280 Raman spectroscopy, while having the limitation of its relatively high detection limit (0.5 wt %), has the advantage that it can visualize if some or all of the Ti has or has not been incorporated and whether indeed some is segregated as TiO2 anatase (140 cm-1). On the other hand, UVvis spectroscopy gives very valuable information on the coordination of the Ti. A sample containing only framework titanium should give an optical transition at 210 nm, which is assigned to a charge transfer (CT) in [TiO4] and [O3Ti-OH] moieties. 349 Isolated extraframework hexacoordinated Ti would give a CT at about 225 nm.349 Partially polymerized hexacoordinated Ti species, which contain TiOTi bonds and belong to a silicon-rich amorphous phase, would give a broad band at 270 nm. 350 Finally, for TiO2 in the form of anatase the transition occurs in the 330 nm region. We see then that UVvis spectroscopy, which is a widely available technique, is a very useful tool for characterizing Ti-MCM-41 samples since, besides its low detection limit (0.03 wt %), it can give information on framework and extraframework Ti.
The definitive proof in favor of the tetrahedral coordination of Ti in MCM-41 came from the application of X-ray absorption spectroscopy (EXAFS/XANES). When this technique was applied to TS-1 and Ti-β-zeolites,347,351,352 it was found that in anhydrous samples titanium is tetrahedrally coordinated, and the first coordination shell of titanium consists of oxygen atoms only. In hydrated samples penta- and hexacoordinated species are present, corresponding in this case to a titanium atom coordinated with four oxygens from the framework and two molecules of water.
We have carried out recently an EXAFS-XANES study of well-prepared Ti-MCM-41,347 and the XANES spectra of a calcined Ti-MCM-41 sample (1.7 TiO2 wt %), and calcined and subsequently rehydrated is shown in Figure 35. We note that the XANES region of the X-ray absorption spectrum is sensitive both to the oxidation state of the absorbancy atom (in this case Ti) as well as to its local coordination geometry. A clear change in the preedge feature is observed after dehydration, indicating a modification in the site symmetry of Ti atoms (see the characteristics of the prepeaks in Table 11). The prepeak intensity in the calcined material suggests a distorted octahedral environment for Ti. The energy position and intensity of the preedge suggest mainly octahedral coordination for Ti, as observed for Ti-zeolites when exposed to the atmosphere. However, when Ti-MCM-41 was dehydrated a sharper and more intense prepeak at lower energy is observed in the XANES spectrum, indicating a decrease in the coordination of Ti toward tetrahedral coordination, feature which has also been previously observed in TS-1 and Ti-β.
Figure 35 Ti K-edge XANES spectra of Ti-MCM-41 sample: (a) calcined and (b) calcined and dehydrated.
Table 11. Ti Preedge Peak Parameters for Ti-MCM-41 Sample compound peakpositiona (0.2eV) A1/A2/A3 intensity (height) 5% FWHMb (0.2eV) calcined 4.2 0.33 2.0 calcineddehydrated 3.8 0.77 1.2 aRelative to the first inflection point for Ti metal.bThe full width at half maximum.
To obtain further insight into the coordination of Ti, the analysis of the EXAFS data of the Ti-MCM-41 sample after calcination and dehydration was carried out (Figure 36), and the coordination number and the TiO distance for the calcined and dehydrated samples are given in Table 12. From these, it can be concluded that when the sample is dehydrated, Ti becomes tetrahedrally coordinated.
Figure 36 Fourier transform magnitude of the K3-weighted EXAFS signals of anatase (solid line) and calcined, dehydrated Ti-MCM-41 sample 2 (dashed line).
Table 12. EXAFS Simulation Parameter for the First Shell of Calcined Dehydrated Sample neighbor N(0.5) R(Å) Δσ2(Å2) ΔE0(eV) fitvalue oxygen 4.3 1.810.02 4×10-4 0.8 5×10-3 The observations from EXAFS-XANES complement the IR and UVvis spectroscopic results (Figures 37 and 38). Indeed the sample showed a band at about 960 cm-1 in the IR spectra, this band disappears, and the material becomes yellow when adding H2O2. The initial conditions are restored by heating the sample at 353 K overnight. The diffuse reflectance spectra in the UVvis region of the calcined Ti-MCM-41, does not show the 330 nm band associated to anatase, but a band at 210230 nm associated to isolated Ti in tetrahedral (210 nm) and hexacoordination (230 nm). Then we can certainly conclude that in well-prepared Ti-MCM-41 samples, isolated TiIV and TiVI species are present, and therefore the incorporation of Ti to the framework of the walls occurs. This fact opened the possibility of using these materials as catalysts for the selective oxidation of large molecules.
Figure 37 IR spectra of calcined Ti-MCM-41.
Figure 38 DR-UV spectra of calcined Ti-MCM-41.
In an analogous way to Ti, vanadium was also incorporated in relatively low amounts in the framework of zeolites 353,354 and MCM-41. 289,355 In well-prepared V-MCM-41 samples, 51V NMR and EPR characterization show that V is, at least in part, incorporated in the framework and consequently can also play a role in catalysis. However, attention should be paid to the fact that leaching of active vanadium species from the silicate matrix during reaction may occurred depending on the nature of the substrate, the solvent, and the oxidant. 356 Since Ti- and V-substituted mesoporous materials are the best documented and also those already proven to be catalytically active, we have limited our characterization discussion to these two materials only. In the next section we will discuss the catalytic activity of mesoporous materials with long-range crystallinity.
D. Catalytic Properties of Mesoporous Materials with Long-Range Crystallinity
We have seen during this review that mesoporous molecular sieves present very high surface areas with very regular pore size dimensions. These properties alone, even if no catalytically active sites can be generated in the structure, are already of great utility for producing carriers on which catalytically active phases such as heteropolyacids, amines, transition metal complexes, and oxides can be supported. Besides their characteristics as supports, we have seen that it is possible to generate Brnsted acid sites on the surface of the mesoporous structures, which opens new possibilities for producing monofunctional acid as well as acid/metal oxide bifunctional catalysts. If Brnsted acidity is generated, one can immediately think of the posibility of increasing the basicity of the conjugated base by exchanging the protons by alkaline ions. This certainly will introduce mild basicity to these materials, which will be useful for less demanding base-catalyzed reactions. Finally, the possibility of introducing transition metals in the walls will give catalytic redox properties which are of use in selective oxidation as well as for air pollution abatement. The versatility of active sites which can be introduced in these materials clearly extends the catalytic possibilities of the microporous zeolites.356 Thus, in this section, we are going to show the possibilities of these materials as acid, base, and redox catalysts, as well as supports for acid, base, hydrogenation, HDS-HDN, and oxidation functions.
1. Acid Catalysis
The large pores of MCM-41 combined with acidity on the walls were specially conceived to carry out catalytic cracking of large molecules. These materials were thought to represent an extension of zeolites and should allow us to deal with large molecules whose diffusion was strongly impeded in the micropores of zeolites such as for instance USY zeolites. Thus, a cracking catalyst was prepared in which the USY zeolite was substituted by Al-MCM-41 (35 wt %) in a silica-alumina-kaolin clay matrix, and the results indicated a higher selectivity of the MCM-41-containing catalyst toward liquid fuels than the one containing the USY zeolite. 357 In the general literature, polyethylene, 358n-heptane, and a vacuum gas oil, 359 have been cracked on Al-MCM-41, amorphous silica-alumina, and USY zeolite, in a microactivity test (MAT) unit. It has been found that with a small reactant (n-heptane), which can easily diffuse inside the pores of the three catalysts (Table 13), the intrinsic activity of the USY zeolite is 139 times larger than MCM-41. This difference in activity is not only due to the larger amount of Brnsted acid sites present on the zeolite, but it is also a consequence of the stronger acid sites present in the zeolite (Table 14). On the other hand, when the large reactant molecules present in the gas oil were cracked, we can see that the activity of MCM-41 approached that of the USY zeolite and is higher than that of amorphous silica-alumina (Table 15).
Table 13. First-Order Kinetic Rate Constants for n-Heptane Cracking sample first-orderkinetic rate(h-1)a K Al(Al+Si)
MCM-41.1 0.6211 8.873
amorphousSi-Al 3.20 35.56
USY1 12.37 1237
aCalculated from plot stop of ln (1  x) vs WHSV-1.
Table 14. IR Intensity of the Pyridinium Bands and Pyridine Coordinate to Lewis Site on the Different Catalyst Samples desorptiontemperature(K) 423 523 623 BrnstedAcidity
MCM-41.1 12 6 3
MCM-41.2 1.5 0.6 0.3
MCM-41.3 n.d. n.d. n.d.
ASA 12 6 3
USY1   21 9
LewisAcidity
MCM-41.1 47 34 24
MCM-41.2 3.1 2.3 1.5
MCM-41.3 2.3 1.5 1.5
ASA 37 23 2
USY1   11 8
Table 15. First-Order Kinetic Rate Constants for Gas Oil Cracking sample first-orderkinetic rate(K)a K Al(Al+Si)
MCM-41.1 2.04 29.14
ASA 1.71 19.00
USY1 3.22 322
aCalculated from a first-order rate expression ln (1 - x) at cat/oil ratio of 4.
Table 16. BET Surface Area (m2 g-1) of the Samples Si/Al calcined steamed
MCM-41.1ST 14 837 81
MCM-41.2ST 100 1031 84
MCM-41.3ST 143 877 347
ASA.ST 100 551 116
USY1.ST 2.5 268 213
Table 17. Residue Upgrading Process with Decreasing MCM-41 Pore Size 1ststage 2ndstage 3rdstage MCM-41poresize maximumcatalyticactivity •demetalization •demetalization •desulfurization •asphalteneconversion •asphalteneconversion •CCRreduction Comparing gas oil cracking selectivity results (Figure 39), it was seen that MCM-41 produces more liquid fuels and less gases and coke than amorphous silica-alumina. When compared with USY zeolite, MCM-41 is more selective toward diesel formation and gives less gasoline and more coke. These results would suggest that if not present as the main active cracking component of the FCC catalyst, MCM-41 could probably be used as an active component of the matrix. Indeed, mesoporous silica-aluminas are active for performing a precracking of the largest feed molecules, facilitating the ulterior action of the USY zeolite. 360 A clever use of the MCM-41 in this respect was reported by Schipper et al. 361 who prepared a cracking catalyst comprising a core of a zeolite (USY, ZSM-5) and a shell of MCM-41.
Figure 39 Selectivity to different products vs total conversion for cracking of gas oil for MCM-41.1, ASA, and USY1.
However, if one takes into account that in a FCC unit the catalyst is subjected in the regenerator to temperatures close to 800 C in the presence of steam, it is easy to understand that for FCC cracking catalysts more important than the initial activity is the hydrothemal stability of the catalysts. It is for this reason that work reporting only on the cracking activity of fresh catalysts becomes limited. 362-364 To find if a given cracking catalyst is suited to resist at a reasonable level, the hydrothermal deactivation in the regenerator of the FCC unit, this is calcined at 750 or 815 C in the presence of 15 psig of steam. When the MCM-41, amorphous silica-alumina and the USY zeolite discussed before were steamed at 750 C, their surface area decreases, this effect being much larger in the case of the MCM-41 samples (Table 16). The observed decrease in MCM-41 indicates two things: First of all that the samples are not stable enough to resist the inferno of the regenerator, and secondly, that the MCM-41 sample containing the lowest Al content is the most stable one. Unfortunately, if MCM-41 is more hydrothermally stable when it contains less Al, it will contain, as a result, a lower number of acid sites when the Si/Al increases and consequently, its catalytic activity decreases. Nevertheless, the gas oil cracking activity of the steamed samples was measured (Figure 40) and the results show that MCM-41 is much less active than either USY or amorphous silica-alumina.359 Similar results on the hydrothermal stability of MCM-48 have also been found. 365 At this point, it becomes clear that even though the characteristics of MCM-41 for cracking vacuum gas oil and straight run naphtha 366 are good, unless more hydrothermally stable samples are prepared the possibilities of using MCM-41 in the actual crackers themselves will be limited. Thus, due to its practical importance the stability of MCM-41 has been studied in a number of publications. 367-371 The most fruitful direction for increasing the stability of these solids consist of increasing the diameter of the walls. In this way pore diameters up to 2.0 nm have been claimed, and the resultant samples show very good thermal stability.370,371 Unfortunately, the hydrothermal stability of the resultant samples was not checked. It appears to us that an increase in hydrothermal stability will be achieved if MCM-41 samples, with more ordered walls, are synthesized. The ideal will be to synthesize MCM-41 with crystalline walls, since if this were achieved the madelung energy will increase the hydrothermal stability of the crystalline samples.
Meanwhile, one can look into refinery processes which require a catalyst with mild acidity and are less demanding from the point of view of the hydrothermal stability. In this sense, processes such as hydroisomerization, hydrocracking and demetalization, and olefin oligomerization appear as good candidates.
Resids or shale oils can be upgraded by using a catalyst comprising MCM-41 and nickel and molybdenum, 372 with the peculiarity that the mesoporous MCM-41 is used in decreasing pore sizes from the top to the bottom of the reactor 373 (Table 17).
A recent development consists of perfoming hydrocracking in reactors commonly used for carrying out hydrodesulfurization of the feed and which works at pressure below 100 bars. By working under these conditions one can perform some hydrocracking of the feed, increasing therefore the amount of diesel produced while achieving the desired HDS of the feed. This process is called mild hydrocracking (MHC) and requires as a carrier a mildly acidic support on which NiO and Mo2O3 are incorporated. Typical catalysts used in MHC include acidic carriers such as halogen-doped alumina, silica-alumina, or zeolites, which allow conversion of heavy hydrocarbons via carbenium ion cracking. The zeolite-containing catalysts are now used extensively in MHC. The amorphous-based hydrocracking catalysts are more sensitive to deactivation by coking and by organic nitrogen compounds and ammonia, formed in the hydrodenitrogenation (HDN) reactions, than zeolite-based catalysts. 374 However, because of their very high cracking activity, zeolite-based hydrocracking catalysts show a higher selectivity to LPG, gasoline, and lower to middle distillates than the amorphous systems. 375 Moreover, an important aspect of hydrocracking catalysts which takes on special relevance when processing heavy feedstocks is the distribution of the metals on its surface, and their proximity to the acid sites where cracking will occur. This is a serious problem for zeolite-based hydrocracking catalysts, even if a large pore Y-type zeolite with enhanced mesoporosity is used. Taking all this into account, MCM-41 appears as a well-suited carrier for this process since it has high surface area for achieving good dispersion of the transition metal oxides, and at the same time the aluminum form of the mesoporous material presents mild acidity. 376,377 Figure 40 Activity for cracking of gas oil for steamed MCM-41.1, ASA, and USY1.
In a recent work,377 the MHC performance of a NiMo/MCM-41 catalysts was compared with that of amorphous silica-alumina and an ultrastable low unit cell size Y zeolite (USY) having the same Ni and Mo contents (Table 18). From the point of view of the acidity of the carrier, USY zeolite showed the highest amount of Brnsted acidity, most of the sites having medium-strong acid strength. The acidity of MCM-41 was similar to that of amorphous silica-alumina, both in number and acid strength distribution. Moreover, most of the Brnsted acid sites in the two mesoporous silica-alumina carriers are of weak-medium strength, as is required for producing diesel in MHC operation. However, it should be taken into account that the acid characteristics of the support are modified when supporting the metals, and in this particular case, the Mo strongly interacts with the acid sites, making the strongest acid sites disappear from MCM-41 and amorphous silica-alumina samples.377 A vacuum gas oil containing 2.53 wt % of sulfur and 2900 ppm of N2 was hydrotreated on the above bifunctional catalysts and their performance for hydrodesulfurization (HDS), hydrodenitrification (HDN), and hydrocracking are given in Figure 41ac.
Figure 41 (a) Hydrodesulfurization (HDS) conversion of feed A as a function of reaction temperature for (·) NiMo/MCM-41, () NiMo/SiO2-Al2O3, () NiMo/USY catalysts. (b) Hydrocracking (MHC) conversion of feed A as a function of reaction temperature. Same symbols as in a. (c) Hydrodenitrogenation (HDN) conversion of feed A obtained at 400 C reaction temperature on the different supported catalysts.
Table 18. Textural Properties of Unsupported and NiMo-Supported Catalysts BETsurface area(m2g-1) porevolume (cm3g-1) sample micropore total nicropore total APDa (nm)
MCM-41 0 648 0 0.54 3.3
NiMo/MCM-41 0 519 0 0.60 4.6 SiO2-Al2O3 21 268 0.01 0.31 4.6 NiMo/SiO2-Al2O3 15 171 <0.01 0.29 6.8 USY 362 551b 0.18 0.41 2.1 NiMo/USY 179 283 0.09 0.29 2.9 aAverage pore diameter.bThe PQ data specifies a surface area of 720 m2 g-1.The results show that the MCM-41-based catalyst gives better performance from the point of view of HDS, HDN, and hydrocracking conversion. This is probably due to the very high surface area and regular pore dimensions of the MCM-41 aluminosilicate, which favors a high dispersion of the active species while increasing the accessibility of the large molecules of the gas oil feed containing heteroatoms to the catalyst active sites. In the case of the MHC, as important as the total conversion is to obtain a good selectivity to middle distillates. The product distribution obtained is given in Table 19 and shows that the NiMo/MCM-41 catalyst produces the lowest amount of gases and consequently the highest to liquid fuels, with diesel production also being maximized. Since the acidities are very similar on the two mesoporous catalysts, the differences in selectivities were related to the regularity, size, and dimensionality of the pores present in MCM-41.377 When the hydrocracking catalysts were used in a hypothetical two-stage operation, using a pretreated feed with lower sulfur and nitrogen contents and with the boiling range of the feed shifted to lower boiling point products, the USY-based catalyst shows its superior hydrocracking activity, while MCM-41 is more selective toward middle distillates than the zeolite and similar to amorphous silica-alumina.Table 19. Product Distribution Obtained in the Mild Hydrocracking of Vacuum Gas Oil (Feed A) at About 50 wt % Hydrocracking Conversion to Products Boiling Below 360 C on the Different NiMo Catalysts distributionofproducts boilingbelow360C(wt%) catalyst C1C4 naphthaa middle distillatesb NiMo/MCM-41 16.2 25.8 58.0 NiMo/SiO2-Al2O3 18.9 23.1 57.9 NiMo/USY 19.7 27.3 52.0 aNaphtha: C5 to 195 C bp.bMiddle distillates: 195360 C bp.It appears, then, that NiMo/MCM-41-type materials may be used in the next generation of MHC catalysts. In this respect it would be worth studying the influence of the pore size of the mesoporous material on the final hydrocracking behavior. This could be relevant, if one takes into account that the reaction network involves a series of consecutive reactions. Therefore, the relative rates for formation of diesel, kerosene, naphtha, and gases should be quite sensitive to the existence of diffusional problems and, consequently, to the diameter of the pores.When deep hydrocracking is desired and the highest possible activity together with the highest possible middle distillate selectivity are to be achieved, then the process is carried out at pressures above 100 bars and temperature range of 230450 C, on catalysts comprising as the support silica-alumina dispersed in an alumina matrix, or silica-alumina and zeolite within an alumina matrix. As the hydrogenationdehydrogenation component, a group VII metal and a group VIB metal are introduced. A hydrocracking process has been developed using mesoporous MCM-41. 378-380 In this case hydrotreated vacuum gas oil feed was hydrocracked on a three-component catalyst: NiW, MCM-41, and USY/ZSM-5. The metal components of the catalyst are preferably associated with the high-surface area mesoporous component and high metal loadings can be achieved in order to give good hydrogenation activity to the catalyst. The zeolite (USY or ZSM-5) provides a higher level of acidic functionality than the mesoporous component, allowing metal loadings and acidic activities to be optimized for good catalyst selectivity and activity. The catalyst that include MCM-41 instead of amorphous silica-alumina allows similar distillate selectivity but with an improved conversion activity.The acid form of Al-MCM-41 together with nickel and tungsten can also be used to hydrocrack heavy waxes. 381 The selectivity of this catalyst toward lube oils is higher than that of fluorinated NiW/Al2O3, specially at levels of conversion above 50%.The mild acidity of Al-MCM-41 can also be useful for isomerizing normal paraffins into isoparaffins on bifunctional Pt/MCM-41 catalysts. 382,383 In the case of a bifunctional mechanism the generalized steps are outlined in the following scheme: The first reaction step occurs on the metal function and corresponds to the dehydrogenation of the paraffin yielding the corresponding olefin. The high reactivity of olefins toward acid catalysts allows the mildly acidic MCM-41 to isomerize the normal olefin to the isoolefin, which is finally hydrogenated on the metal function and desorbed as an isoparaffin. In comparison to Pt-silica-alumina catalysts the Pt/MCM-41 produced less cracked products, probably due to its effectively greater Pt dispersion.A combination of hydrocracking plus hydroisomerization in a two-step process based on a MCM-41 catalyst is able to convert wax feeds to high viscosity index lubricants. 384 In the first step the wax feed is hydrocracked under mild conditions (70 bar), with a conversion to nonlube range products lower than 40% of the feed, on an acidic mesoporous MCM-41 based catalyst. The effluent of the first stage is hydroisomerized in a second step using a low acidity hydroisomerization Pt/MCM-41 catalyst to produce less waxy branched paraffins.Since olefins can easily be activated by solid catalysts containing mild acid sites, H-MCM-41 has been used for upgrading olefins in several different processes. 385 In one of these routes, C3, C4, or C5 olefins are oligomerized to C6C18+ hydrocarbons which are then recycled and cracked in a multistage process to form C3C5 range olefins.Olefins can also be disproportionated on H-MCM-41 to produce isobutylene and isoamylenes that are reactants for the production of MTBE and TAME.366 Production of fuel and lubricants can also be obtained by direct oligomerization of olefins 386-390 on metal-containing MCM-41. Cr, Ni, and Fe are suitable metals to carry out the oligomerization of ethylene and propylene. In general, it can be said that the catalytic activity of mesoporous materials was lower than MFI-metallosilicates, 391 particularly when the purpose is to produce oligomeric gasoline. However it has been shown391 that a considerable amount of oligomers is produced from propene at low temperatures on MCM-41-type catalysts, and in this case the pore size of the mesoporous material can make a difference when the objective is to oligomerize larger olefins, or in general, to produce large lubricant molecules. As an example the oligomerization of propylene on different acid catalysts is given in Figure 42.390 Figure 42 Propylene oligomerization on different acid catalysts.When discussing the advantages of mesoporous materials for acid-catalyzed reactions, the benefit of the large regular pores better allowing the diffusion of the reactants and conversely the fast diffusion of the products out, minimizing unwanted consecutive reactions and catalyst decay by the large sizes of the adsorbed molecules, is a recurring theme. If this feature was useful in the field of oil refining and petrochemistry, it becomes of paramount importance when dealing with the synthesis of fine chemicals. Indeed, these reactions, often involve bulky reactants and products, and in many cases they are carried out in liquid phase where diffusional problems can be enhanced. It is not then surprising that acidic mesoporous materials have enjoyed considerable success in the field of organic synthesis, even though the applications are still in their infancy. Up to now most of the work published in the application of acidic MCM-41 materials for the production of fine chemicals comes principally from two research groups from Delft and Valencia Universities. FriedelCrafts alkylations and acylations are successfully carried out on aluminosilicate MCM-41. 392-398 The shape selectivity of the H-MCM-41 was demonstrated during the alkylation of 2,4-di-tert-butylphenol with cinnamyl alcohol. Even though a large-pore HY zeolite has adequate acidity to carry out this reaction, only very minor amounts of the FriedelCrafts product 3 were observed, while this was the major product on MCM-41 (Table 20).392 An explanation for this is the possibility that dihydrobenzopyran (3) would be produced via the intermolecular ring closure of the primary cinnamylphenol (2), arising from the FriedelCrafts alkylation of phenol (1). On the other hand, compounds 4 and 5 would be formed by acid-catalyzed dealkylation, a process which is generally observed in tert-butyl substituted aromatics and has been reported to occur on zeolites. 399-401 Thus, owing to the diffusional problems of the reactant 1 through the windows of the zeolite, benzopyran (3) will only be formed on the surface of the faujasite, while it will easily diffuse and react in the pores of MCM-41. Analogous pore size effects were observed during the tert-butylation of anthracene, naphthalene, and tianthrene.394 Table 20. Results of the Reaction of 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol (206 mg) with Equimolar Amounts of Cynnamyl Alcohol (134 mg) in Isooctane (50 mL) at 90 C in the Presence of Solid Catalyst (250 mg) or Sulfuric Acid (20 mg) products,yield(%) catalyst 1 3 4 others
HY 89 <1 5
HYM 75 9  12a
MCM-41 20 35 25 5(6)
Si/Al 56 6 H2SO4 73 12 9 3b aDicinnamyl ethers plus diphenylpentadienes.bTri-tert-butylphenol.
Acylation reactions are of general use in the production of fine chemicals. In most processes AlCl3 is still used in stoichiometric amounts to catalyze this type of reactions. Very recently, the economic as well as waste disposal problems associated with the use of AlCl3 are trying to be overcome through the use of easy separable and regenerable solid catalysts. In this sense researchers from Rhne-Poulenc have claimed the use of acid zeolites for the FriedelCrafts acylation of aromatics, 402 and some of the results have now been commercialized. The work of Spagnol et al., however, certainly opens up the possibility of exploring MCM-41 for carrying out acylation reactions of more bulky reactants.
The synthesis of aromatic ketones is an important process in the preparation of synthetic fragrances and pharmaceuticals which involves an aromatics acylation step. More specifically in this area, work has been reported396 on the acylation of 2-methoxynaphthalene with acetic anhydride, with the aim of achieving the highest acylation at the 6 position which is of particular interest for the production of the anti-inflamatory drug Naproxen.
In this respect, H-MCM-41 was found to be an active catalyst giving at 132 C in chlorobenzene, turnover numbers of 20, 17, and 11 when using acetic, benzoic, and isobutyric anhydride, respectively, as acylating agents. With respect to the product distribution it was observed that at moderate temperatures (up to 100 C) the selectivity to the 1-acylated product was practically 100%. At higher temperatures, the preferential deprotodeacylation of the 1 position, with respect to the 6 or 8 position, leads to a decrease in the selectivity for the 1 position. Nevertheless selectivities to the acylation in the 6 position were always below 10% on the H-MCM-41 catalyst. What is remarkable in this system is that the catalyst can be easily regenerated. It appears then that the mildly acidic H-MCM-41 mesoporous material is a suitable Brnsted acid catalyst for the FriedelCrafts acylation of 2-methoxynaphthalene using anhydrides as acylating reagents.
This mild acidity combined with the large pores has been especially useful for carrying out reactions such as acetalyzations, 403 Beckman rearrangements, 404 glicosidation, 405 and aldol condensation. 406 The catalytic preparation of acetals is of interest for their use in pharmaceuticals 407,408 and as fragrances in perfumes and detergents. 409 Since the reaction does not need strong acid sites and on the other hand it frequently deals with bulky reactants, H-MCM-41 appeared as a good choice of catalyst. The acetalization of aldehydes with different sizes, i.e. n-heptanal (1), 2-phenylpropanal (2), and diphenylacetaldehyde (3), with trimethylorthoformiate (TOF) was carried out on different acid catalysts going from microporous (β-zeolite) to mesoporous amorphous silica-alumina (Si-Al), and long-range ordered MCM-41 silica-alumina.403 The rates of acetalization obtained on these catalysts are given in Table 21.
Table 21. Influence of the Catalyst Pore Size on the Rate and Conversion in the Acetalization Reaction of 1, 2, and 3 r0(molh-1g-1)×103 catalyst 1 2 3
1-MCM-41 2500 2480 2340
2-βH     180 Si-Al 1500 1600 460 It can be seen once again in this case that when working with reactants of smaller size, the zeolite is the most active catalyst. However when the size of the aldehyde increases, the diffusional restrictions imposed by the zeolite pores strongly decrease the observed rate of reaction, while in the case of the MCM-41 catalyst the ratio remains very close, regardless of the size of the reactant aldehyde. This makes the ordered mesoporous acid catalyst a very convenient one for carrying out, acetalization reactions, especially when bulky reactants and products are involved. If the catalytic activity is important for these reactions, it is also very important to avoid, or at least to slow down, the deactivation of the catalyst during the process. The acetalization of the bulkiest diphenylacetaldehyde is a very nice example of the importance of the fast diffusion of the products to slow down the catalyst deactivation. Indeed, the results presented in Figure 43 indicate that while the initial rate of acetalyzation is larger on HY zeolite this becomes rapidly poisoned due to the products which are not able to diffuse outside building up in the α cavities resulting in conversions no greater than 60%. On the contrary, in the case of the MCM-41 catalyst even though the initial rate is slightly lower, the catalysts decay is slower than in the case of HY zeolite, and consequently practically 100% conversion is achieved within three hours of reaction time.
Figure 43 Synthesis of dimethyl acetals on HY and MCM-41 acid catalysts.
The Beckman rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxide has been carried out on medium and large pore zeolites, 410-414 and it has been concluded that weak acid sites, as weak as silanols, can carry out the reaction.412 Then MCM-41 with its low acidity can also catalyze a reaction of this type404 but the yields and selectivity are lower than those obtained with zeolites.
It is remarkable, taking into account the general properties of mesoporous materials, how little work was undertaken in applying acidic mesoporous molecular sieves to the preparation of fine chemicals. We are convinced that in the next few years, when more information on these materials will be available to organic chemists, the number of applications of MCM-41 type materials in organic synthesis will strongly increase. This review is aimed, in part, to show the readers who are nonspecialized in materials preparation but who are potential users of MCM-41 derivatives that they are relatively easy to make and their potential, at least in catalysts, is still largely unexplored.
2. Base Catalysis
It was previously reported that microporous aluminosilicates can be used as base catalysts when the negative charge on the aluminum was compensated by alkaline ions. 415,416 Furthermore the smaller the charge to radius ratio of the compensating cation is, the stronger the basicity of the associated framework oxygen is.415,416 In an analogous way to that of zeolites, the negative charge of the tetrahedrally coordinated aluminum atom in MCM-41 was compensated by Na+ and Cs+ and the resultant samples were active and selective for carrying out the base- catalyzed Knoevenagel condensation of benzaldehyde with ethyl cyanoacetate: 417 As expected, the H-MCM-41 was not able to catalyze the reaction, while the Na+-exchanged sample could perform the reaction. The Cs+-exchanged sample was more basic and therefore, it was more active than the Na+-exchanged sample (Table 22).
Table 22. Knoevenagel Condensation of Benzaldehyde and Ethyl Cyanoacetate with Different MCM-41 Catalysts catalyst amount (%m/m) t(h) conversion (%m/m) selectivity (%) Aalk (molh-1mol-1alk.met.) Awt (mmolh-1g-1)c Na-MCM-41a 5 7 81 75 2.3 11.8 Na-MCM-41b 5 3 72 99 4.7 15.5 HNa-MCM-41b 5 3 61 95 24.9 14.1 Cs-MCM-41Aa 1.6 7 67 60 5.3 12.9 Cs-MCM-41Ab 5 3 72 98 7.5 18.4 aSolvent free at 150 C, 20 mmol of ethyl cyanoacetate and 26 mmol of benzaldehyde.bTHF-H2O at 70 C, 15 mL of each and 10 mmol of each reactant.cSpecific activity at t.
When the Na-MCM-41 sample was tested on a more demanding reaction such as the condensation of benzaldehyde with diethyl malonate, it was found that the reaction occurs, but at a much smaller rate. For instance, only 6% conversion was observed after 3 h at 150 C. When an excess of alkaline with respect to the exchange capacity is introduced, Na2O and Cs2O particles can be formed and then the resultant catalysts show a stronger basicity than caesium- and sodium-exchanged MCM-41.
In our opinion alkaline-exchanged MCM-41, especially those with a high AlIV content, can extend the possibilities of alkaline exchanged zeolites toward reactions catalyzed by weak bases and involving large size reactant molecules. On the other hand, the very large surface area of Al-MCM-41 can be an adequate support to generate, after impregnation with cesium salts followed by calcination in an inert atmosphere, a high amount of small Cs2O particles, which will be able to perform reactions demanding strong basicities.
3. Redox Catalysis
After the seminal work on the selective oxidation of paraffins, olefins, and alcohols on Ti-silicalite 418-420 and its extension to a large pore Ti-β-zeolite, 421-423 the door was opened to introduce active Ti in the walls of MCM-41. The first report on the successful preparation of Ti-MCM-41 was published in early 1994,282 and the resultant material was able to epoxidize selectively olefins to epoxides using H2O2 as the oxidizing agent (Table 23).
Table 23. Catalytic Oxidation of Hex-1-ene with H2O2 on Ti-MCM-41 Zeolite selectivity(%molar) t(h) conversion (H2O2) selectivity (H2O2) epoxide glycol ether
0.50 3.9 60 100
2.00 23.4 70 95.7 1.7 2.6
3.50 28.9 70 94.4 1.6 4.0
5.00 39.9 75 91.2 3.1 5.7
The activity of Ti-MCM-41 to epoxidize small linear olefins with H2O2 was lower than when using Ti-silicalite and Ti-β-zeolite catalysts, indicating that the intrinsic activity of Ti in the MCM-41 was lower than in ZSM-5 and β-zeolites, at least under the reaction conditions used. However the advantages of Ti-MCM-41 as epoxidation catalyst was in its ability to oxidize large molecules which cannot diffuse in the pores of microporous materials, as well as to use organic hydroperoxides as oxidants. 282,424 For instance Ti-MCM-41 was found to be much more active than Ti-β-zeolite to oxidize α-terpineol and norbornene at 70 C using tert-butyl hydroperoxide as oxidant (Table 24).
Table 24. Oxidation of α-Terpineol and Norbornene on Ti-Containing Materials norbornene α-terpineol   epoxides catalystsample reactiontime(h) product3 others reactiontime(h) exo endo alcohol Ti-MCM-41 3 23.8 4.02 5 21.7 4.7 3.1 8 31.5 8.6 11 30.0 12.3 6.4 Ti-Beta 3 4.1 2.5 5 4.7 5.6 6.6 8 7.6 5.8 11 11.2 7.1 12.8 Two months later, another paper on the synthesis of a mesoporous Ti-containing material called Ti-HMS appeared,283 showing a surprisingly high catalytic activity for the hydroxylation of benzene to phenol using acetone as the solvent. However, it was shown later 425 that the phenol yields were overestimated, due to the fact that the competitive oxidation of the acetone was not taken into account and the products formed were not separated chromatographically from phenol. When the reaction was carried out properly it was shown that Ti-HMS has very low activity for the hydroxylation of phenol, and in any case much lower than Ti-MCM-41.425 Other papers have expounded on the subject. 426-428 Recently it has been proposed that Ti-HMS prepared with a neutral surfactant (SI) exhibits greater catalytic activity for the liquid-phase peroxide oxidations of methyl methacrylate, styrene, and 2,6-di-tert-butylphenol than Ti-MCM-41 assembled by electrostatic S+I+ and S+X-I+ pathways. The difference in activity is larger when bulkier reactants are used. This difference in activity cannot be related to differences in the intrinsic activity of Ti, since this is in the same environment in the walls of the structure (see earlier discussion) and thus has been related to the greater interparticle mesoporosity observed in Ti-HMS which should facilitate substrate transport and access to the framework confined mesopores.286 Amines have also been oxidized on Ti-MCM-41 and Ti-HMS mesoporous materials. 429,430 The products formed are of interest in several fields including chemical and pharmaceutical industries. 431,432 While Ti-MCM-41 has little activity to convert primary aliphatic amines into the corresponding hydroxylamine, the mesoporous Ti-HMS is active for the oxidation of arylamines in the liquid phase. The success observed from using the mesoporous material was again related to the larger pores and the possibility of using organic peroxides as oxidants. On a similar basis, Ti-MCM-41 is able to oxidize bulky sulfides to the corresponding sulfoxides and sulfones, better than the large pore Ti-β-zeolite. 433 Indeed, the results show that while Ti-β-zeolite is more active in reaction 1, the order of reactivity is reversed when a bulkier sulfide is involved (reaction 2).
Up to now most of the work on Ti-M41S mesoporous molecular sieves has been carried out on the MCM-41 structure and very few on Ti-MCM-48. 287,434 In those cases a Ti-containing mesoporous material isomorphous to the cubic MCM-48, silicate structure has been synthesized by using surfactants. It was claimed that since the unit cell has been enlarged and UVvis, IR, and Raman characterization showed that titanium was well dispersed, the guest metal should probably be located in the wall of the mesoporous structure substituting for part of the silicon. However, when one looks closer at the synthesis procedure reported, it can be seen that the high pH synthesis (pH = 11) is achieved by adding NaOH. It is well known in the literature that in order to incorporate Ti in micro- and mesoporous materials in tetrahedral coordination in the final structure, alkalines metal hydroxides should be avoided in the synthesis otherwise alkaline metal titanates will be formed. Thus it may occur that under the reported synthesis conditions only a small amount of the Ti should be in tetrahedral coordination within the walls of the MCM-48. An indication that this may be the case is the fact that the increase in unit cell size in the case of the Ti-containing sample is only of 0.3 Å.287 Taking all this into account it is certainly remarkable that the resultant Ti-MCM-48 is able to selectively oxidize methyl methacrylate and styrene.
Until now we have discussed the new possibilities opened by Ti-M41S mesoporous materials in the field of selective oxidation of bulky reactants using H2O2 and organic hydroperoxides. These possibilities have been expanded by the observation that it is possible to prepare bifunctional acid oxidation catalysts which are able to perform two different reaction steps on the same catalyst. 435 In that work a MCM-41 structure was prepared which contained in the walls both Ti and Al sites. In essence the catalyst now has both the TiIV oxidation sites, in addition the H+ associated to the AlIV as acid sites, which enables us to carry out in one pot and using tert-butyl hydroperoxide, the multistep oxidation of linalool to cyclic furan and pyran hydroxy ethers with 100% selectivity and in ratio of 0.89. This method somewhat resembles the case where epoxidase enzyme is used instead (0.7) and is much better than the less friendly conventional process involving performic acid: 436 At this point one can ask why should we use long-range-ordered mesoporous catalysts which require the use of surfactants during the synthesis of Ti-containing silicas if they can be prepared by a sol-gel synthesis and hence no surfactant is required. In trying to answer this question we report here on the comparison of the catalytic characteristics of Ti-containing mesoporous molecular sieves with mesoporous titania-silica aerogels with highly dispersed titanium as prepared by an alkoxide sol-gel process. 437-442 In this case it was found that, at least for lower Ti contents, Ti is tetrahedrally coordinated and is able to epoxidize selectively alkenes using organic hydroperoxides. However unlike Ti-MCM-41 they cannot be used when H2O2 is the oxidant. An optimized preparation involves a sol-gel technique combined with ensuing supercritical drying at near-ambient temperature.438 This treatment produces a high density of the desired TiOSi centers, while producing a good mesoporous texture which allows accessibility to bulky olefins and organic hydroperoxides. A titania content of 20 wt % has been found to be the optimum for catalytic purposes.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 