I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Journal of Catalysis 240 (2006) 151159 www.elsevier.com/locate/jcat Promotion of the propane ODH reaction over supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalyst with secondary surface metal oxide additives Brishti Mitra a, Israel E. Wachs b, Goutam Deo c,a Department of Chemical Engineering, University Institute of Engineering and Technology, CSJM University Kanpur, Kanpur 208 024, India b Operando Molecular Spectroscopy & Catalysis Lab., Chemical Engineering Department, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA 18015, USA c Department of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, Kanpur 208 016, India Received 23 January 2006; revised 23 March 2006; accepted 23 March 2006 Available online 24 April 2006 Abstract Supported vanadiaalumina catalysts modified with chromium, molybdenum, and tungsten oxides were synthesized, characterized, and studied for their reactivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of methanol and propane. Raman and temperature-programmed reduction characteri- zation studies revealed that only surface metal oxide species are present and that the modifiers are noninteracting in nature. Methanol ODH studies demonstrated that the modifiers cover the support acidic surface sites, are noninteracting in nature, and do not affect the surface vanadia redox product yield. The propane ODH reaction, however, revealed that the propylene yield increases when the surface MoOx and WOx are added to the supported vanadiaalumina catalysts. The surface MoOx and WOx modifiers are themselves relatively inert and appear to promote the propane adsorption step during the propane ODH reaction. The surface CrOx modifier is more active than the surface vanadia sites for propane activation,but has a lower selectivity for propane ODH to propylene. 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Catalyst; Supported; Al2O3; V2O5; CrO3; WO3; MoO3; Spectroscopy; Raman; H2-TPR; Oxidation; Oxidative dehydrogenation; ODH; CH3OH; C3H8; C3H6; Catalytic sites; Redox; Acidic
1. Introduction
The oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane to propyl- ene has been extensively studied over supported vanadium oxide catalysts [111]. A major challenge in the commercial development of propane ODH catalytic technology is further improvement in the propylene yields, because significant car- bon oxide byproducts are also formed. The main cause of the selectivity limitation arises from the conversionselectivity re- lationship; an increase in conversion results in a decrease in propylene selectivity. One method to improve the yield of the desired product is to use surface metal oxide additives or mod- ifiers that can further promote formation of the desired propyl- ene product. The use of surface metal oxide modifiers possi- bly can tune the inverse conversionselectivity relationship and result in enhanced propylene selectivity at higher propane con- * Corresponding author. Fax: +91 512 2590104.
E-mail address: goutam@iitk.ac.in (G. Deo). version. Based on a series reaction network for propane ODH to propylene and its subsequent oxidation to carbon oxides (C3 C3= COx), tuning of the inverse conversionselectivity re- lationship can be achieved by increasing the k1/k2 ratio of the two reaction steps [12,13]. A triangular pseudo-first-order net- work taking the propane combustion step into consideration has also been used as a basis for understanding ways to increase propylene yield [14].
The desired action of surface metal oxide modifiers is alter- ation of the surface characteristics of the catalytic active sites to result in different k1/k2 ratios. The secondary surface metal ox- ide modifiers are proposed to be either interacting or noninter- acting with the surface vanadia sites [15]. The interacting mod- ifiers chemically coordinate with the surface vanadia species,affecting its catalytic properties, whereas the noninteracting modifiers coordinate with the oxide support and do not directly affect the catalytic properties of the surface vanadia species.
Furthermore, metal oxides additives with relatively low oxida- tion states (e.g., Ni2+, Co2+, and Fe3+) can strongly interact 0021-9517/$  see front matter  2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.015 152
B. Mitra et al. / Journal of Catalysis 240 (2006) 151159
with the surface defects of the Al2O3 support and form surface spinel-type species that are absorbed by the support subsur- face region [16]. Recently, supported vanadiaalumina catalysts were modified by surface molybdenum (Mo) and chromium (Cr) oxides and investigated for propane ODH [1719]. To the best of our knowledge, tungsten (W) oxide modification of supported vanadiaalumina catalysts has not been investigated in the open literature, although a tungsten-modified vanadia titania catalyst has been considered [20]. Alkali [2124], alka- line [25,26], manganese [23], and phosphorous [22] oxide ad- ditives to supported vanadiaalumina catalysts have also been studied for the propane ODH reaction.
In the present study, the metal oxide additives of Cr, Mo,and W were investigated to examine their effect on a supported vanadiaalumina catalyst for propane ODH. These elements are part of the group VIB of the periodic table and have varying redox (Cr > Mo > W) and acidic (W > Mo > Cr) character- istics [27,28]. The effect of these modifiers on the molecular structure and reducibility of the catalytic surface vanadia sites was studied. The chemical properties of the resulting modified supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts were probed with methanol and propane ODH catalytic reactions. Raman spectroscopy is commonly used for the characterization of surface metal ox- ide structures because of its ability to discriminate between different molecular structures based on their vibrational differ- ences [29]. H2 temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) stud- ies have also been generally used for discriminating between different molecular structures due to its structure-dependent re- duction behavior [30]. The methanol oxidation probe reaction has been shown to provide information about the different re- active sites present on the catalyst surface (redox, acidic, and basic) [31]. The relationships between the above structural and chemical characteristics and the targeted propane ODH reaction will provide additional fundamental insight into the influence of the various metal oxide modifiers on propane ODH over sup- ported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts.
2. Experimental
2.1. Catalyst preparation
The modified and unmodified V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts were prepared by the incipient wetness impregnation method. The γ -alumina support was obtained from Condea (PURALOX, Sba 200). Seven catalyst samples were prepared for this study.
The modifier, nomenclature, precursors used, and composition (wt% and atoms/nm2) of the different catalysts, along with the surface area and total metal oxide surface coverage, are given in Table 1. The Al2O3 support was initially pretreated with in- cipient volumes of oxalic acid solution; the details of the drying and calcination procedure are similar to the preparation of the catalysts and given elsewhere [9]. The incipient wetness im- pregnation of vanadium or co-impregnation of vanadium and modifier (chromium, molybdenum, and tungsten) ions from so- lution was then carried out on the pretreated support. The base V2O5/Al2O3 catalyst was prepared with less than half mono- layer surface coverage. The molar ratio of modifier to vanadium was maintained at levels specified in Table 1. Each individ- ual sample was thoroughly mixed and dried in air at room temperature overnight after impregnation, then at 383 K for 7 h and at 523 K for 6 h. The samples were finally calcined at 873 K for 6 h. To study the effect of chromia, molyb- dena, and tungsta modifiers on the properties of the supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts, vanadia-free supported Cr2O3/Al2O5, MoO3/Al2O5, and WO3/Al2O5 were also prepared by the in- cipient wetness impregnation method analogously to the prepa- ration of the supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts. The amounts of chromium, molybdenum, and tungsten oxides used in these samples were the same as those used in the modified supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts.
2.2. Catalyst characterization
2.2.1. BET surface area
The surface areas of the samples were determined by a mul- tipoint BET method using N2 adsorption at 77 K. Degassing of the samples was achieved by heating in flowing helium at
423 K.
2.2.2. Raman spectroscopy
The catalysts were characterized by Raman spectroscopy under ambient and dehydrated conditions. The spectra were obtained using an ultraviolet (UV)visible Raman spectrome- ter system (Horbia-Jobin Yvon LabRam-HR) with a confocal microscope, 2400/900 grooves/mm grating, and a notch filter.
The samples were excited with a 532-nm Yag double-diode Table 1 Specifications of the unmodified and modified supported vanadiaalumina catalysts Modifier Nomen- clature Precursor
V2O5
(%) MxOy (%) Va (atoms/nm2) Ma,b (atoms/nm2) Surface area (m2/g) Total surface coveragea Al2O3
194 0
7WAl
(NH4)6H2W12O14·8H2O
7.0
1.0
199
0.22
5MoAl (NH4)6Mo7O24·4H2O
5.6
1.3
193
0.28
4CrAl Cr(NO3)3·9H2O
4.0
1.7
200
0.42
7VAl NH4VO3 + oxalic acid
7.3
2.7
159
0.37
WO3
7W7VAl
(NH4)6H2W12O14·8H2O
6.8
6.6
2.7
1.0
0.59
MoO3 5Mo7VAl (NH4)6Mo7O24·4H2O
6.9
5.2
2.7
1.3
153
0.64
Cr2O3 4Cr7VAl Cr(NO3)3·9H2O
7.0
3.7
2.7
1.7
159
0.79
a Based on pretreated Al2O3 surface area. b M = W, Mo and Cr.
B. Mitra et al. / Journal of Catalysis 240 (2006) 151159
153 pumped visible laser, and the spectral resolution was 2 cm1.
The scattered photons were directed into a single monochroma- tor (Jobin Yvon, LabRam-HR), and a UV-sensitive LN2 CCD detector (Jobin Yvon CCD-3000V) was used to collect the scat- tered photons. The powdered samples were placed in an in situ cell (Linkam, TS-1500), which allows high-temperature treat- ments under different flowing gases. The samples were pre- treated in flowing O2/He at 673 K for 0.5 h before the Raman spectra of the dehydrated samples were obtained.
2.2.3. H2-TPR studies
H2-TPR studies were carried out on both the modified and unmodified supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts in an Altamira (AMI-100) system. A mixture of 10% H2Ar at atmospheric pressure was used. Samples of 50 mg were loaded into a quartz U-tube reactor and calcined in air at 773 K for 15 min.
The samples were then cooled to 323 K, and dry argon was passed to remove the air used for calcination. The H2-TPR pro- files were obtained by then passing the H2Ar gas at a flow rate of 17 mol/s and a heating rate of 10 K/min. The hydro- gen consumption was monitored quantitatively using a thermal conductivity detector.
2.3. Reactivity studies
2.3.1. Methanol oxidation
The methanol oxidation reaction was carried out in an isothermal fixed-bed differential flow reactor operating at at- mospheric pressure. A reactant gas mixture of CH3OH/O2/He in a molar ratio of 7.1/14.4/78.8 and total flow rate of 100 mL/min was used for the reaction. The oxygen and helium mixture was sent through two independent mass flow controllers (Brooks) and bubbled through a methanol saturator cooled at 282.5 K. The cooling was achieved by flowing wa- ter from a cooler (Neslab RTE 112) through the saturator. The reactor was made of Pyrex glass (6 mm o.d.) and was held ver- tical with the gases flowing from top to bottom. The catalyst was supported on a layer of unreactive quartz glass wool. The catalyst amounts used were restricted to 25 mg, to maintain differential conditions. The reaction studies were carried out at 523 K. Each catalyst was pretreated at 623 K in a stream of flowing O2 and He for 30 min before each run. The reactor was housed in a homemade furnace, and the temperature was con- trolled by a PID controller. The products were introduced into an on-line gas chromatograph (HP 5890 Series II) via a heated line and analyzed by a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) with a Carboxene-1000 packed column and a flame ionization detector (FID) with a CP-sil 5 CB capillary column connected in parallel.
2.3.2. ODH of propane
The ODH of propane was carried out at atmospheric pres- sure in an isothermal fixed-bed differential reactor with an i.d. of 6 mm. A catalyst amount of 50 mg was used for each run.
Net reducing conditions were maintained by using a reactant gas mixture with a C3H8/O2/He molar ratio of 9/3/38 and a to- tal flow rate of 50 mL/min. The catalysts were pretreated in a flowing O2/He gas mixture at 753 K for 30 min before each run.
Reaction temperatures were varied from 623 to 753 K for dif- ferent catalysts. Product gases were analyzed using an on-line gas chromatograph (HP GC 6890 series) with both TCD and FID detectors. A Carboxene-1000 packed column and a Su- pelco capillary column (PQ1334-04) were used for the TCD and FID, respectively.
For both reaction studies, the activity, yield, and product se- lectivity were calculated based on the specific areas observed from the gas chromatography and the respective response fac- tors. The reaction data were obtained at 30-min intervals for 2 h, during which no deactivation was observed. The methods used for calculating the activities, yields, and product selectiv- ity are elaborated elsewhere [9,32].
3. Results and discussion
3.1. BET surface areas and metal oxide surface coverage
The surface areas of the seven catalysts along with the pre- treated Al2O3 support are tabulated in Table 1. The surface area of the supported catalysts ranged from 153 to 200 m2/g.
Supporting small loadings of a single metal oxide component resulted in an insignificant decrease in surface area. The sup- porting of two metal oxide components, however, resulted in a noticeable decrease in surface area due to an increase in total mass of the supported metal oxides. A similar decrease in sur- face area with larger loadings of a single metal oxide species has been observed previously and is usually associated with the difference in the atomic weights among aluminum, vanadium,and the other modifiers and/or a decrease in the micropores.
Furthermore, the X-ray diffraction patterns of the seven cata- lysts revealed only features of Al2O3, suggesting that the sup- port phase was not significantly affected during the synthesis steps.
The total surface metal oxide coverage was always main- tained below monolayer coverage (see Table 1). Monolayer surface coverage values for the different metal oxides on Al2O3 were taken from previous studies [33] as VOx, 7.3 V/nm2; WOx, 4.5 W/nm2; MoOx, 4.6 Mo/nm2; and CrOx, 4 Cr/ nm2. The vanadia loading was always maintained at 0.37 mono- layer coverage, and the secondary metal oxide modifier load- ings ranged from 0.2 to 0.4 monolayer coverage. In addition,the modifiers always constituted the minor component, and the surface VOx was always the dominant metal oxide component in the catalysts.
3.2. In situ Raman spectroscopy
The Raman spectra of the dehydrated catalysts presented in Figs. 1a and 1b differ from those obtained under ambient con- ditions (not shown for brevity), reflecting the two-dimensional surface nature of these metal oxides. Comparing the Raman spectra of the dehydrated unmodified and modified supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts reveals that the vibration of the surface V=O terminal bond, as well as the other VOx vibrations, were 154
B. Mitra et al. / Journal of Catalysis 240 (2006) 151159
(a) (b) Fig. 1. (a) Raman spectra of dehydrated alumina supported metal oxide cat- alysts. (b) Raman spectra of dehydrated supported vanadiaalumina catalysts (unmodified and modified with secondary metal oxide additives). essentially unaffected by the presence of the secondary sur- face metal oxide additives. The unmodified supported vanadia alumina catalyst exhibited the V=O vibration at 1028 cm1 and in the presence of the modifiers varied only slightly, from 1028 to 1030 cm1, within the experimental limitations of Raman spectroscopy. Small variations have also been observed with in- creasing surface vanadia (VOx) loading, associated with minor changes in the V=O terminal bond strength due to polymeriza- tion of the surface VOx with increasing surface coverage [34].
The vibrations of the terminal M=O bonds of the secondary surface metal oxide additives were observed at 1003 cm1 for Cr=O, 1010 cm1 for Mo=O, and 998 cm1 for W=O. Strong Raman bands at 580 and 884 cm1 have also been detected in the 4CrAl sample, associated with the polymeric surface chro- mate species [35]. Even with the increased total surface metal oxide coverage due to the addition of the surface modifiers,no distinct band associated with the polymeric surface vanadia species was observed as was previously reported in the Raman studies of Vuurman et al. [16]. For the modified samples, only surface molybdena species (MoOx) gave rise to distinct Raman bands, reflecting that the relative Raman cross-section of the surface MoOx species was the highest among the different sec- ondary metal oxide modifiers used in the present study. Thus,in the presence of the surface metal oxide modifiers, no signifi- cant change in the molecular structure of the surface vanadium oxide species was observed for the samples used in this study.
This suggests that the secondary metal oxide additives are func- tioning as noninteracting modifiers.
In addition, the absence of new Raman bands for the mod- ified supported vanadiaalumina samples demonstrates the ab- sence of crystalline bulk CrVO, MoVO, or WVO mixed oxide phases in these samples. The crystalline bulk CrVO and MoVO mixed oxides have been observed in supported metal oxide samples with more than a monolayer of total sur- face metal oxide coverage [18,19].
3.3. H2-TPR studies
The H2-TPR spectra of the alumina-supported metal oxide catalysts are presented in Fig. 2. The supported WO3/Al2O3 catalyst was not found to reduce due to its well-known stabi- lization by the alumina support [36]. The hydrogen reduction temperatures, Tp, of the individual alumina-supported metal oxide catalysts increased as follows: CrOx (640 K) < MoOx (759 K) < VOx (783 K) WOx. This trend indicates that the ease of oxygen removal by molecular H2 from these sur- face metal oxide species varied in the following order: CrOx > MoOx > VOx WOx. The addition of surface WOx and MoOx to the supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts had no or only a minor effect on the Tp reduction temperature of the sur- face VOx species. But the addition of surface CrOx to sup- ported V2O5/Al2O3 introduced more easily reducible metal ox- ide sites, characteristic of the surface CrOx species, and also slightly decreased the ease of oxygen removal by H2 from the surface VOx species (from 784 to 756 K). The latter ef- fect may be related to some hydrogen spillover from the more easily reducible surface CrOx species on Al2O3. Thus, the H2-
B. Mitra et al. / Journal of Catalysis 240 (2006) 151159
155 Fig. 2. H2-TPR profiles of alumina supported metal oxide catalysts.
TPR results demonstrate that the ease of oxygen removal from the surface VOx species on Al2O3 by molecular H2 was ei- ther not affected or only mildly affected by the presence of group VI secondary surface metal oxide additives. This find- ing is in agreement with Raman findings discussed above, as well as earlier studies concluding that the group VI surface metal oxide species behave as noninteracting metal oxide addi- tives [15].
No new reduction peak was observed for the modified alumina-supported vanadia catalysts, further confirming the ab- sence of crystalline, bulk CrVO, MoVO, or WVO mixed oxide phases. Usually, the presence of new surface metal ox- ide molecular structures can be clearly discernible by Raman spectroscopy and H2-TPR. For example, the presence of X-ray diffractionamorphous αI-VOPO4 has been observed on Ra- man spectroscopy and H2-TPR [13]. Consequently, no addi- tional bulk mixed oxide phases were present in the modified supported vanadiaalumina catalysts.
3.4. CH3OH oxidation
The catalytic activity, selectivity, and redox turnover fre- quency for the alumina-supported metal oxide catalysts and the pure alumina support are presented in Table 2. The pure Al2O3 support had no surface redox activity and was very ac- tive for the acid-catalyzed formation of dimethyl ether (DME).
The acid-catalyzed formation of DME, however, was signifi- cantly suppressed with introduction of the surface metal ox- ides. Fig. 3 plots the DME yields over the different alumina- supported metal oxide catalysts versus the total surface metal oxide coverage. The DME yield continuously decreased with increasing surface metal oxide coverage independent of the specific surface metal oxide species. This indicates that DME formation originates from exposed alumina surface Lewis acid sites Al2O3, and these acidic sites are being titrated or cov- ered by the surface metal oxide species. An increase in surface vanadia coverage also results in a continuous decrease in DME yield, because the surface vanadia sites progressively cover the exposed Al2O3 sites [32].
Table 2 Reactivity data for methanol oxidation over alumina supported metal oxide cat- alysts (T = 523 K; CH3OH/O2/He 7.1/14.4/78.8; total flow rate 100 sccm) Catalyst Activity (mol g1 cat h1) Selectivities (%) Redoxa turn- over frequency ×102 (s1)
DME
HCHO
DMM
MF
Al2O3
0.531
100 0 0 0
0.00
7WAl
0.195
100 0 Trace 0
0.00
6MoAl
0.207
100 0 0 0
0.00
4CrAl
0.118
96 Trace 2 2
0.23b
7VAl
0.185
66 28 4 2
2.22
7W7VAl
0.129
57 36 5 2
2.09
5Mo7VAl
0.144
57 38 4 1
2.24
4Cr7VAl
0.141
53 38 6 3
2.42
a Corresponding to HCHO + DMM + MF formation per vanadium site, ex- cept 4CrAl. b Corresponding to HCHO, DMM and MF formation per chromium site.
Fig. 3. Dimethyl ether (DME) yield during CH3OH dehydration over alu- mina supported metal oxide catalysts versus total surface metal oxide coverage (T = 523 K; CH3OH/O2/He 7.1/14.4/78.8; total flow rate 100 sccm).
Analysis of the redox products of methanol oxidation, the sum of [formaldehyde (F) + methyl formate (MF) + dimethoxy methane (DMM)], over the alumina-supported vanadia cata- lysts reveals that the turnover frequency (TOF) of the redox products, given in Table 2, was not affected by the presence of secondary surface metal oxide additives. This suggests that the supported metal oxide additives are significantly less ac- tive than the surface vanadia species for the ODH of CH3OH to
HCHO. Similar results were previously found for the effect of
noninteracting modifiers on V2O5/TiO2 catalysts for methanol ODH to formaldehyde [15]. Thus, the ODH activity of the cat- 156
B. Mitra et al. / Journal of Catalysis 240 (2006) 151159
Table 3 Reactivity data for propane ODH over alumina supported metal oxide catalysts (T = 653 K; C3H8/O2/He = 9/3/38; total flow rate = 50 sccm) Catalyst Activity ×102 (mol g1 cat h1) Selectivities (%) Overall TOFa ×103 (s1)
C3H6
CO
CO2
Al2O3
0.02
0 100 0 7WAl
0.03
0 100 0
0.12
6MoAl
0.05
0 74 26
0.18
4CrAl
1.4
24 27 49
7.29
7VAl
1.1
72 17 11
4.27
7W7VAl
2.3
70 18 12 5Mo7VAl
2.1
72 17 11 4Cr7VAl
6.8
49 32 19 a Based on single component surface metal oxide species. alytic active surface vanadia redox sites, as chemically probed by methanol oxidation, was not perturbed by the presence of secondary surface metal oxide additives.
3.5. Propane ODH
The propane ODH findings over the supported metal ox- ide catalysts are presented in Table 3. The alumina support showed no selective propane oxidation activity under the cho- sen reaction conditions. The alumina-supported tungsta and molybdena catalysts were also inactive for the selective propane ODH to propylene, and only COx byproducts were detected.
The alumina-supported chromia and vanadia catalysts were sig- nificantly more active than the alumina-supported tungsta and molybdena catalysts, with an overall TOF about two orders of magnitude greater. The overall TOF for the surface CrOx species was higher than that for the surface VOx species, but the propylene selectivity trend was inverse to that for activ- ity (72% for supported V2O5/Al2O3 vs. 24% for supported CrO3/Al2O3).
The propane ODH to propylene over the supported V2O5/ Al2O3 catalysts was significantly influenced by the presence of secondary surface metal oxide additives. Both surface WOx and MoOx are inactive for propane ODH, but their presence enhances the selective ODH of propane to propylene by in- creasing the activity by a factor of 2 and maintaining the same selectivity. Adding surface CrOx to supported V2O5/Al2O3 in- creased the activity by a factor of 6, but with an accompany- ing decrease in propylene selectivity from 72 to 49%. Never- theless, the overall yield of propylene from propane ODH was enhanced significantly (see Fig. 4). The lower propylene selec- tivity for the 4Cr7VAl sample may be partly due to the higher conversion considered. The increase in overall propane ODH activity was larger than the sum of the individual surface metal oxide species, because both alumina-supported surface WOx and MoOx species are essentially inactive for propane ODH,but their addition significantly enhances propane ODH activ- ity. Thus, the secondary group VI surface metal oxide additives promote the supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts for the propane ODH reaction and its selective formation of propylene.
Comparing the propane ODH and propylene selectivity val- ues in Table 3 reveals that the supported 7W7VAl and 5Mo7VAl catalysts have similar selectivity to the supported 7VAl sample.
Fig. 4. Propylene yield during propane ODH over alumina supported metal oxide catalysts at different temperatures (C3H8/O2/He = 9/3/38; total flow rate = 50 sccm). 4CrAl + 7VAl correspond to the cumulative C3H6 yields of 4CrAl and 7VAl. Cumulative C3H6 yields for 6MoAl+7VAl and 7WAl+7VAl overlap the C3H6 yields of 7VAl.
These catalysts similar propylene selectivity suggests that ex- posed surface alumina sites play an insignificant role in the con- version of propylene to carbon oxides, because these catalysts have variable surface metal oxide coverage (see Table 1). This is consistent with the results of Fourier transform infrared spec- troscopy studies on pure Al2O3 that found no propylene adsorp- tion at 373 K [26]. The propylene selectivity of the 4Cr7VAl sample was between that of the 4CrAl and 7VAl catalysts, re- flecting that both surface VOx and CrOx sites were active for propane ODH to propylene, with the latter being less selective.
The promotional effect of the secondary group VI surface metal oxide modifiers on supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalyst for propane ODH to propylene is further shown in Fig. 4, which plots the propylene yield versus the reaction temperature. The propylene yield increased with reaction temperature for all the catalysts, due primarily to the difference in activation energy between propylene and carbon oxide formation. The propyl- ene yields of the modified supported vanadiaalumina catalysts were greater than those of the individual supported metal ox- ide catalysts at all temperatures. The propylene yield of the chromia modified vanadiaalumina catalyst was the greatest and larger than the combined yield of supported V2O5/Al2O3 and Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts, as also shown in Fig. 4. The yields for the tungsta- and molybdena-modified vanadiaalumina cat- alysts were similar, but greater than the propylene yields for the unmodified aluminavanadia catalyst. The combined propylene yields of the V2O5/Al2O3 + WO3/Al2O3 and V2O5/Al2O3 + MoO3/Al2O3 catalysts were similar to the propylene yield of the supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts, because the supported WO3/Al2O3 and MoO3/Al2O3 catalysts are essentially inactive.
Thus, the promotional effect of the secondary group VI metal oxide modifiers for the propane ODH reaction is not due to the presence of a new phase, a change in the strength of the redox centers, or a change in the exposed alumina sites.
B. Mitra et al. / Journal of Catalysis 240 (2006) 151159
157 To understand the promotional effect in terms of kinetic parameters, it is worthwhile to consider a simplified network for the propane oxidation reaction where propylene is the in- termediate or primary product and the carbon oxides are the secondary or final products [9,12,13]. Based on this reaction model, the increase in propane oxidation activity in Table 3 can be seen to result from an increase in the rate constant for propylene formation, k1. No information about the variations in the rate constant for carbon oxide formation, k2, can be de- duced from the present investigation, although recent kinetic parameter studies reveal that the value of k2 is not significantly affected for the WOx- and MoOx-modified V2O5/Al2O3 cata- lysts. The rate constant k1 contain the pre-exponential factor,k10, and activation energy, E1. The apparent activation energy values for propylene formation are calculated based on the propylene yields as a function of reaction temperature. Such estimates of apparent activation energies are approximate, and additional experiments are needed for more reliable values. For the supported 7VAl, 7W7VAl, 5Mo7VAl, and 4Cr7VAl cata- lysts, the apparent activation energies for propylene formation are not very different: 85, 78, 90, and 81 kJ/mol, respec- tively. Consequently, the promotional effect of the secondary group VI surface metal oxide modifiers does not appear to re- side in changes of the activation energy term for propane ODH to propylene.
The similarity of the propylene formation activation ener- gies for the modified supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts suggests that the promotional effect is due to the increase in the pre- exponential k10 values. One of the major terms in the pre- exponential k10 value is the equilibrium adsorption constant.
This suggests that the noninteracting and inactive secondary surface metal oxide additives, with the exception of the active surface CrOx species, enhance the propane adsorption equilib- rium constant over the supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts. This implies that propane is able to adsorb in a precursor state on the secondary surface metal oxide sites that can supply the weakly adsorbed propane to the catalytic active surface VOx sites for activation to propylene. Consequently, the same propylene selectivity values are observed for the surface MoOx and WOx modified and unmodified supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts. For the CrOx-modified supported V2O5/Al2O3 cat- alyst, the situation is more complex, because both the sur- face CrOx and VOx sites are active for propane activation to propylene, even though different selectivities are observed. The propane equilibrium adsorption constant is affected by both sur- face metal oxide sites, and the adsorbed propane is converted to propylene and further to carbon oxides, depending on the whether the activation occurs on the surface vanadia or chro- mia sites.
3.6. Molecular structureactivity/selectivity relationships
The alumina-supported VOx and MOx (M = Cr, Mo, and W) metal oxides used in this investigation are present exclu- sively as surface metal oxide species coordinated to the alumina support. The secondary group VI surface metal oxide modi- fiers behave as noninteracting additives because they do not significantly alter the molecular structure of the surface VOx species of the supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts. The noninter- acting nature of these secondary surface metal oxide additives is further reflected in the almost unperturbed reduction charac- teristics of the alumina-supported surface VOx species involv- ing oxygen extraction by molecular H2 during H2-TPR exper- iments. A similar conclusion is reached when the redox char- acteristics of the various supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts are chemically probed with methanol ODH to formaldehyde. The secondary surface metal oxide additives have almost no redox activity for methanol ODH, and the redox yield of the modi- fied alumina-supported vanadia catalysts is essentially invariant to the presence of the secondary surface metal oxide additives (see Tables 2 and 3). However, the corresponding propylene yields during propane ODH are significantly enhanced by the presence of the surface metal oxide additives even though the surface MoOx and WOx additives are almost inactive for this reaction. Kinetic analysis of the propane ODH reaction over the supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts suggests that the origin of this enhancement resides in the kinetic pre-exponential factor that contains the adsorption equilibrium constant.
The model for the modified supported vanadiaalumina cat- alysts that accounts for the different reactivity trends of these catalysts for methanol and propane ODH reaction is shown in Fig. 5. Dissociative CH3OH chemisorption readily proceeds on supported VOx sites, and the adsorption process is not acti- vated, with the rate-determining step involving breaking of the CH bond of the surface *CH3O intermediate [37]. The reac- tivity of the surface group VI metal oxide additives is almost negligible for formation of redox products, and the kinetics of the supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts, as well as of supported V2O5/TiO2 [15] and V2O5/Nb2O5 [38], are independent of the presence of the surface modifiers. However, propane ODH over reducible metal oxides proceeds via activation of the CH bond from the central carbon during adsorption, which also constitutes the rate-determining step [39]. The kinetic analy- sis suggests that the propane equilibrium adsorption constant is enhanced when the secondary surface metal oxide additives are present for supported V2O5/Al2O3 catalysts. Consequently,the secondary surface metal oxide additives are able to weakly adsorb propane in a precursor state and supply the weakly ad- sorbed propane to the active surface VOx sites for propane ODH to propylene. This is shown schematically in Fig. 5, where propane also weakly adsorbs on the surface modifiers, which can supply the adsorbed propane to the active surface vanadia site for activation to propylene (shown as dotted lines). For the surface chromia modifier, an additional arrow originates from the surface MxOy species to propylene, arising from its intrinsic high activity (not shown for simplicity). Thus, the reaction- specific promotional effect of the secondary group VI surface metal oxide additives for propane ODH is a consequence of the presence of weakly chemisorbed propane on these relatively in- ert metal oxide sites that supply the propane to catalytic active redox site for activation to propylene. Furthermore, the current study demonstrates that the reactivity of the same surface metal oxide catalytic active sites, as well as their kinetic interactions,158
B. Mitra et al. / Journal of Catalysis 240 (2006) 151159
Fig. 5. Model of the (a) methanol oxidation reaction and (b) propane ODH reaction showing the effect of the secondary metal oxide additives, MxOy, on supported vanadiaalumina catalysts. For the surface chromia modifier, an additional arrow originates from the surface MxOy species to propylene and is not shown for simplicity. is strongly dependent on the specific chemical probe molecules being used (H2, CH3OH, and C3H8).
4. Conclusions
Supported vanadiaalumina catalysts were modified with secondary group VI (Cr, Mo, and W) metal oxide additives. Ra- man spectroscopy revealed that the metal oxide additives were present as surface MOx species and that they did not form crys- talline CrVO, MoVO, or WVO mixed-oxide phases. Ra- man spectroscopy and H2-TPR studies also demonstrated that the secondary surface metal oxides behaved as noninteracting additives that did not significantly alter the molecular struc- ture of the surface VOx species. The secondary surface metal oxide additives were relatively inert for methanol ODH under the chosen reaction conditions, and did not perturb the redox activity of the alumina-supported vanadia sites. However, dur- ing propane ODH to propylene, a significant promotional effect was seen due to the presence of the secondary surface metal ox- ide additives. The promotional effect is reflected in an enhanced kinetic pre-exponential factor associated with the propane equi- librium adsorption constant. It appears that the relatively inert secondary surface metal oxide additives (MoOx and WOx) are able to weakly adsorb propane in a precursor state that supplies the catalytic active VOx sites for propane activation to propyl- ene. Unlike the relatively inert surface WOx and MoOx modi- fiers, the surface CrOx modifier has greater intrinsic activity for propane activation than the surface VOx sites. Consequently,the enhanced activity of the alumina-supported CrOxVOx cat- alyst is related to the partial supply of weakly adsorbed propane from the somewhat less active surface VOx sites to the more ac- tive surface CrOx sites. However, the selectivity of the propane to propylene reaction is lower over the surface CrOx sites than over the surface VOx sites.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do various metal oxide catalysts compare in terms of activity and selectivity for CO2-ODHP, and what are the key factors influencing their catalytic performance, with particular emphasis on the evolution of chromium species in supported Cr2O3 catalysts as a function of loading and support properties?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 