<quotes>

[1] "The rate of propane dehydrocyclodimerization to form C 6 -- aromatics is limited by a sequence of irreversible dehydrogenation reactions leading to propene, higher alkenes, dienes, tfienes, and aromatics."
[2] "Ga and Zn species increase the rates of propane chemical conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation from D 2 into reaction products."
[3] "Disposal of hydrogen formed in C-H bond activation steps occurs by transfer of H-atoms to unsaturated species to form alkanes or to Ga and Zn species, which catalyze the recombinative desorption of H-atoms to form dihydrogen (H2)."
[4] "The sequential release of several H-atoms during a propane dehydrocyclodimerization turnover limits the rate and selectivity of this reaction on H-ZSM5."
[5] "Ga and Zn species increase the rate of H 2 formation via recombinative desorption of H-atoms formed in dehydrogenation steps."
[6] "Ga and Zn sites allow dehydrogenation reactions to occur without the requirement for concurrent cracking."
[7] "The addition of metal species to H-ZSM5 channels increase aromatic turnover rates and actually decrease cracking turnover rates."
[8] "Ga and Zn species catalyze the recombinative desorption of H-atoms formed in an acid-catalyzed C-H bond activation reaction occurring as a first step in every dehydrogenation event required for an aromatization turnover."
[9] "Ga and Zn species increase the rate of propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites that activate C-H bonds, allowing acid sites to turnover without the formation of cracking products."
[10] "Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H-atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed C-H bond cleavage, as all-hydrogen (He)."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations. The rate of propane dehydrocyclodimerization to form C6 aromatics is limited by a sequence of irreversible dehydrogenation reactions leading to propene, higher alkenes, dienes, tfienes, and aromatics. Ga and Zn species increase the rates of propane chemical conversion, recombinative hydrogen desorption, and deuterium incorporation from D2 into reaction products. Disposal of hydrogen formed in C-H bond activation steps occurs by transfer of H-atoms to unsaturated species to form alkanes or to Ga and Zn species, which catalyze the recombinative desorption of H-atoms to form dihydrogen (H2). The sequential release of several H-atoms during a propane dehydrocyclodimerization turnover limits the rate and selectivity of this reaction on H-ZSM5. Ga and Zn species increase the rate of H2 formation via recombinative desorption of H-atoms formed in dehydrogenation steps. Ga and Zn sites allow dehydrogenation reactions to occur without the requirement for concurrent cracking. The addition of metal species to H-ZSM5 channels increases aromatic turnover rates and actually decreases cracking turnover rates. Ga and Zn species catalyze the recombinative desorption of H-atoms formed in an acid-catalyzed C-H bond activation reaction occurring as a first step in every dehydrogenation event required for an aromatization turnover. Ga and Zn species increase the rate of propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites that activate C-H bonds, allowing acid sites to turnover without the formation of cracking products. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H-atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed C-H bond cleavage, as all-hydrogen (He). These factors contribute to their industrial significance in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，对烷烃转化的机制和效率有重大影响。丙烷脱氢环二聚化形成C6芳烃的速率受到一系列不可逆脱氢反应的限制，这些反应导致丙烯、更高烯烃、二烯、tfienes和芳烃的形成。Ga和Zn物种增加了丙烷化学转化、重组氢脱附和从D2向反应产物中掺入氘的速率。在C-H键活化步骤中形成的氢的处置通过将H原子转移到不饱和物种以形成烷烃或转移到Ga和Zn物种，这些物种催化H原子的重组脱附以形成二氢（H2）。在H-ZSM5上，丙烷脱氢环二聚化周转期间几个H原子的连续释放限制了该反应的速率和选择性。Ga和Zn物种通过重组脱附增加H2的形成速率，这是在脱氢步骤中形成的H原子。Ga和Zn位点允许脱氢反应在没有同时裂解的需要的情况下发生。在H-ZSM5通道中添加金属物种增加了芳烃周转率，实际上降低了裂解周转率。Ga和Zn物种催化在每个芳构化周转所需的脱氢事件中作为第一步的酸催化的C-H键活化反应中形成的H原子的重组脱附。Ga和Zn物种通过从激活C-H键的酸位点去除H原子来增加丙烯的形成速率，使酸位点在没有裂解产物形成的情况下周转。Ga和Zn作为'portholes'，催化从酸催化的C-H键断裂中形成的H原子的重组脱附，作为所有氢（He）。这些因素对它们在氧化脱氢和沸石催化的反应等过程中的工业重要性有贡献。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
