<quotes>

[1] "The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species."
[2] "Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts."
[3] "Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits."
[4] "The concentration of dopant atoms, and the temperature of reduction were other contributing factors that affected the catalytic behaviour for ZrO2-based catalysts.3 Numerous binary YZrOx and LaZrOx-based catalysts displayed high activity, selectivity and stability as well as comparable performance to KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts over the course of 60 DDH cycles at 550 C, 600 C and 625 C under industrially relevant conditions."
[5] "The authors observed tuneable concentrations of the CO, OCO and OH functional groups by adjusting the carbonization temperature. As such, low carbonization temperatures (600 C) enhanced deep cracking due to surface acidic sites (e.g. OCO), hindering propene desorption. The subsequent increase in carbonization temperature (up to 700800 C) caused the decomposition of the acidic sites, thus increasing propene selectivity."
[6] "The improved stabilization is a result of two factors: firstly, Sn incorporation into the lattice of HMS forms strong SnOSi bonds, which inhibit Sn reduction to low melting point Sn0, and secondly, additional stabilization of the Sn species is induced by the mesoporous structure of the HMS support."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species. P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts. P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability. Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits. The concentration of dopant atoms, and the temperature of reduction were other contributing factors that affected the catalytic behaviour for ZrO2-based catalysts. The authors observed tuneable concentrations of the CO, OCO and OH functional groups by adjusting the carbonization temperature. Sn incorporation into the lattice of HMS forms strong SnOSi bonds, which inhibit Sn reduction to low melting point Sn0, and additional stabilization of the Sn species is induced by the mesoporous structure of the HMS support.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.载体的结晶温度直接影响了VOx/Al2O3催化剂的催化性能，这是由于结晶温度升高至100°C时，Lewis酸位点数量增加的结果。这反过来又影响了不同的表面V物种的分布。P改性可以极大地影响VOx/Al2O3催化剂的结构和活性。P改性降低了VOx的聚合度，这对催化剂的稳定性有积极影响。Mg改性对V2O5晶粒的分散作用和活性V3+物种的增加减少了焦炭沉积的数量和聚合。掺杂原子的浓度和还原温度是影响ZrO2基催化剂催化行为的其他因素。通过调整碳化温度，作者观察到CO、OCO和OH功能基团的浓度可调。Sn掺入HMS晶格中形成强SnOSi键，这抑制了Sn还原为低熔点Sn0，并且由于HMS载体的介孔结构，Sn物种得到了额外的稳定。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
