<quotes>
[1] "The promotion of carbon dioxide (CO2) has been demonstrated by Samsung General Co. at the bench-scale in the oxidation of alkyl aromatics, hydrocarbons, and partially oxidized aromatics to acids using (CoMnBr) MC-type catalysts with/or without alkali or alkaline earth metals in the co-presence of CO2."
[2] "The co-presence of CO2 contributed to the enhanced reaction rate as well as higher conversions and selectivities."
[3] "In the case of O2CO2, a different distribution of products was observed. The phenylacetaldehyde was the major product followed by styrene epoxide, phenyl methyl ketone, and benzaldehyde in the molar ratio 5 : 5 : 3 : 1."
[4] "It was found that the promotional behaviour was due to the formation of peroxocarbonate species, which were identified by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) studies under reaction conditions with and without CO2."
[5] "Moreover, it was observed that, in O2/CO2, an increased yield towards terephthalic acid was observed."
[6] "The oxidation of p-methylanisole over an MC-type catalyst indicated that p-methoxyphenol is formed as a major product along with a small amount of minor products, p-anisaldehyde and p-anisic acid. Whereas, in the co-presence of CO2, an increase in the yield of p-anisaldehyde was observed."
[7] "Recently, Park et al. have investigated the promotional effect of carbon dioxide over mesoporous carbon nitride (MCN) as a metal-free oxidation catalyst."
[8] "The formation of such metal peroxocarbonate species was evidenced by Aresta et al. in their spectroscopic studies and a mechanism for the formation of peroxycarbonate has been proposed."
[9] "This metal peroxocarbonate species is regarded as an active species and shows activity mimicking monoxygenases."
[10] "Yoo et al. suggested the formation of peroxocarbonate over Fe/Mo/DBH (partially deboronated borosilicate molecular sieve) and the formation of the peroxycarbonate is depicted in Fig. 11."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Samsung General Co. demonstrated the promotion of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the oxidation of alkyl aromatics, hydrocarbons, and partially oxidized aromatics to acids using (CoMnBr) MC-type catalysts at the bench-scale. The co-presence of CO2 led to an enhanced reaction rate, higher conversions, and selectivities.

2. The presence of CO2 in the reaction mixture resulted in a different product distribution. Phenylacetaldehyde became the major product, followed by styrene epoxide, phenyl methyl ketone, and benzaldehyde in a specific molar ratio.

3. The enhanced promotional effect of CO2 was attributed to the formation of peroxocarbonate species, which were confirmed through electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) studies under reaction conditions with and without CO2.

4. In the reaction mixture containing O2 and CO2, the yield towards terephthalic acid was significantly increased.

5. The oxidation of p-methylanisole over an MC-type catalyst produced p-methoxyphenol as the main product, alongside minor products p-anisaldehyde and p-anisic acid. The co-presence of CO2 led to an increase in the yield of p-anisaldehyde.

6. Park et al. investigated the promotional effect of CO2 over mesoporous carbon nitride (MCN) as a metal-free oxidation catalyst.

7. Metal peroxocarbonate species were evidenced by spectroscopic studies performed by Aresta et al. A mechanism for the formation of peroxycarbonate was proposed.

8. These metal peroxocarbonate species were considered active species with activity resembling that of monoxygenases.

9. Yoo et al. suggested the formation of peroxycarbonate over Fe/Mo/DBH (partially deboronated borosilicate molecular sieve) and depicted the formation of peroxycarbonate in Figure 11.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 三星一般公司展示了二氧化碳（CO2）在苯基芳香族、碳氢化合物和部分氧化芳香族的酸化反应中的促进作用，使用了（CoMnBr）MC型催化剂在实验台上。CO2的存在提高了反应速率、转化率和选择性。

2. 在CO2共存的情况下，产物分布不同。苯甲醛成为主要产物，随后是苯乙烯环氧乙烷、苯基甲基酮和苯甲醛，它们的摩尔比为5:5:3:1。

3. CO2增强的促进效果归因于形成的过氧碳酸盐物种，通过反应条件下的电子顺磁共振（EPR）研究确认了这一形成过程。

4. 在含有O2和CO2的反应混合物中，对间苯二甲酸的产率显著增加。

5. 间甲基异丙醇在MC型催化剂上的氧化产生间甲氧基苯酚作为主要产品，以及少量副产品间异丁醛和间苯酸。CO2共存导致间异丁醛的产率增加。

6. Park等人研究了二氧化碳在无金属氧化物的金属自由基氧化催化剂（MCN）上的促进作用。

7. Aresta等人通过光谱研究证明了金属过氧碳酸盐物种的存在，并提出了过氧碳酸盐形成的机制。

8. 这些金属过氧碳酸盐被视为活性物种，其活性类似于单加氧酶。

9. Yoo等人提出了Fe/Mo/DBH（部分去硼硅酸盐分子筛）上过氧碳酸盐的形成，并在图11中描绘了过氧碳酸盐的形成过程。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
