I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Density functional theory studies of the structure and electronic structure of pure and defective low index surfaces of ceria Michael Nolan a, Sonja Grigoleit a, Dean C. Sayle b, Stephen C. Parker c, Graeme W. Watson a,* a Department of Chemistry, Trinity College, University of Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland b Department of Environmental and Ordanance Systems, RMCS, Cranfield University, Shrivenham, Swindon SN6 8LA, United Kingdom c Department of Chemistry, University of Bath, Claverton Down, Bath BA2 7AY, United Kingdom Received 4 October 2004; accepted for publication 22 December 2004 Available online 31 December 2004 Abstract We present periodic density functional theory (DFT) calculations of bulk ceria and its low index surfaces (111),(110) and (100). We find that the surface energies increase in the order (111) > (110) > (100), while the magnitude of the surface relaxations follows the inverse order. The electronic properties of the bulk and surfaces are analysed by means of the electronic density of states and the electron density. We demonstrate that the bonding in pure ceria is partially covalent and analysis of the resulting electronic states confirms the presence of localised Ce4f states above the Fermi level. The surface atoms show only a small change in the charge distribution in comparison to the bulk and from the DOS the main differences are due to the changes in the oxygen 2p and cerium 5 d states. Investigation of the atomic and electronic structure of an oxygen vacancy on the (100) surface shows the problems DFT can have with the description of strongly localised systems, wrongly predicting electron delocalisation over all of the cerium atoms in the simulation cell. We demonstrate an improvement in the description of the strongly correlated cerium 4f states in partially reduced ceria by applying the DFT+U methodology, which leads to the appearance of a new gap state between the valence band and the empty Ce4f band. Analysis of the partial charge density shows that these states are localised on the CeIII ions neighbouring the oxygen vacancy. In terms of classical defect chemistry, the vacancy is bound by two neighbouring CeIII ions, which have been reduced from CeIV, i.e. V O  2Ce0 Ce. The remaining Ce ions are in the CeIV oxidation state. The localisation of Ce4f electrons modifies the predicted structure of the defective surface. 2004 Published by Elsevier B.V. 0039-6028/$ - see front matter  2004 Published by Elsevier B.V. doi:10.1016/j.susc.2004.12.016 * Corresponding author. Tel.: +353 1 608 1357; fax: +353 1 671 2826.
E-mail address: watsong@tcd.ie (G.W. Watson).
Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229 www.elsevier.com/locate/susc
1. Introduction
The technological importance of cerium oxide, CeO2, particularly its important role in automobile three-way catalytic converters and in solid oxide fuel cells [1], has seen it become the focus of many experimental and computational investigations.
Since the surface properties of ceria determine the catalytic activity of this material, much atten- tion has been given to the study of the low index surfaces of ceria.
Ceria is an insulating, non-magnetic rare-earth oxide. It has a cubic fluorite structure with four cerium and eight oxygen atoms per unit cell and an experimentally determined lattice parameter of 5.411 A [2]. Upon partial reduction of ceria,oxygen vacancies are formed [1]. In this reaction the oxidation state of Ce changes reversibly from Ce(IV) to Ce(III), the reaction being Ox O  2Cex Ce ! V O  2Ce0 Ce  1
2O2
1 using KrogerVink notation, where Ox O is a neutral oxygen in an oxygen lattice site, Cex Ce is a neutral cerium atom in a cerium site, V O is a doubly pos- itively charged vacancy in an oxygen site and Ce0 Ce is a single negatively charged cerium atom (+3 oxidation state) in a cerium site. In the Ce(III) state, a previously unoccupied 4f state is occupied,giving the electronic configuration Ce4f1 [3]. It is expected upon partial reduction, that the two cer- ium atoms neighbouring the vacancy will be re- duced to Ce(III). The reverse reaction where Ce(III) changes to Ce(IV) is carried out through oxi- dation. This redox process allows ceria to store or release oxygen, depending on the oxygen partial pressure; the oxygen storage/release capability of ceria being central to technological applications.
Reduction of ceria and oxygen ion migration is energetically favourable in the low index surfaces compared to bulk [4,5] and it is thus important to obtain an understanding of the nature of pure and reduced ceria surfaces.
In order to facilitate the study of surface struc- ture, thin films of ceria have been grown on a number of support materials including alumina,yttrium stabilised zirconia, platinum and palla- dium [68]. Experimentally, the (111) surface is observed to be stable and undergoes little relaxa- tion [9]. The (110) and (100) surfaces have been observed to undergo surface relaxations [9,10]. It has been determined through STM [10], AFM [11], ion scattering spectroscopy [12] and low en- ergy electron diffraction [13] that the (111) surface is oxygen terminated. The (110) surface has been studied by No renberg and Briggs using STM and electron diffraction [14], demonstrating that it is terminated with a stoichiometric layer. The least stable, and most studied, surface is (100). Cleaving this surface gives a dipole moment perpendicular to the surface and therefore requires a reconstruc- tion since dipolar surfaces are unstable [15]. Gen- erally removal of 50% of the terminating oxygen species is observed [4,10], which Hermann demon- strated using angular resolved mass spectroscopy of recoiled ions [12]. No renberg and Harding [10] have presented an STM study of the pure and par- tially reduced (100) surface of ceria. These authors have found that surface relaxations take place in order to reduce the surface energy. While cation termination of the (100) surface is possible, the anion terminated (100) surface is found to have the lowest surface energy [4,10] and is taken as the observed termination. Evidence for the appear- ance of naturally occurring oxygen defects was de- rived from the nature of the bright spots in the STM image coupled to atomistic simulations.
Despite the fundamental importance of these species to automotive catalysis, an understanding of how oxygen vacancy defects modify the proper- ties of ceria is still lacking. It is necessary to devel- op our understanding of the oxygen storage mechanism in cerium dioxide, in order to develop more efficient catalysts. While the electronic struc- ture of pure bulk ceria has been well studied, with much debate regarding the exact nature of the elec- tronic structure, it is only in recent years that the electronic structure of reduced ceria has been stud- ied [3,9]. The resulting features in the UPS spec- trum are dependent on the occupation of the cerium 4f states [16]. In the work of Henderson et al. [3], it was demonstrated that upon reduction of the ceria (111) surface, a new occupied Ce4f state appears in the gap between the valence band and the previously unoccupied Ce4f states, 1.2 eV above the valence band. Mullins et al. have ob- served the formation of this same peak for reduced 218
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
ceria (111) thin films grown on an Ru(0001) sup- port [13]. This peak is due to formation of Ce3+ and the intensity of the XPS peak is related to the amount of Ce3+ present. The Ce5d spectrum is also modified upon reduction, with a new peak appearing at a binding energy of 903.8904.0 eV [3,10]. These observations are characteristic of the presence of Ce3+ species.
The defective (111) surface has also been stud- ied by No renberg and Briggs with STM [17]. No significant lateral relaxation of the surface was ob- served and oxygen termination of this surface was found. These authors claim that oxygen vacancy defects initially form in triangular clusters and upon further annealing form line defects, indicat- ing that the clustering of the oxygen vacancy de- fects on ceria surfaces is energetically favourable.
Namai et al. [11] have also observed these triangu- lar and linear oxygen defects in the partially re- duced CeO2(111) surface. These authors have also concluded that an oxygen defect density of greater than 1 · 1013 cm2 (approximately 1% of top layer O2) is necessary for vacancy clustering to occur. Oxygen vacancy clustering is also pre- dicted from atomistic simulation to be energeti- cally more favourable than isolated surface oxygen vacancies [4,11]. There have been limited studies on the reduced (110) and (100) surfaces,although Mullins et al. have studied the electronic structure of reduced CeO2(110) with UPS and have observed the appearance of the Ce4f peak at 2.0 eV above the valence band [16].
Many studies have applied atomistic simulation methods, using interatomic potentials, abbreviated hereafter as IP, in order to gain an insight into bulk and surface properties of ceria. Interatomic potentials are parameterised analytical functions used to describe the interactions between ions in a material. The parameters in the functions are generally chosen to reproduce experimental data.
A number of interatomic potentials have been developed for the calculation of the structure of bulk ceria and the surface energies and relaxed structures of ceria surfaces [4,5,1827]. In compar- ison, the number of studies of bulk and surfaces of ceria using ab initio methods is smaller. In CeO2,the formal oxidation state of cerium is +4, how- ever, two different approaches have been devel- oped in order to treat the ground state electronic structure. In the first, cerium is seen as tetravalent with an unoccupied 4f-band (4f0) and a completely filled O2p-band [28]. The second considers the ground state of ceria to be a mixture of two Ce configurations, 4f0 and 4f1 with a filled O2p va- lence band for the former and a partially filled O2p-valence-band in the latter [29]. In this model,cerium is no longer strictly tetravalent.
A number of studies of ceria have been con- cerned with elucidating the role of the Ce4f elec- trons in the electronic structure of CeO2. In early SCF band calculations of bulk ceria Koelling et al. [30] concluded that some covalent bonding is present, so that ceria is not completely ionic.
Fujimori also concluded that partial occupancy of the Ce4f states is present [29], corresponding to the second model above. However, Wuilloud et al. [28] and Wachter et al. [31] have concluded that the cerium 4f states in CeO2 are fully unoccu- pied and localised, corresponding to the first model above.
In their study of the electronic properties of bulk ceria, with HartreeFock theory, Hill and Catlow (who use a minimal basis set on cerium and oxygen) [32] and Gennard et al. (who use a more extended basis set) [33] have neglected com- pletely the Ce4f basis functions, under the assump- tion that doing so does not affect the bulk properties of ceria, since the Ce4f orbitals are as- sumed to be unoccupied. These studies found that the bulk properties of ceria can be well described even without the Ce4f electrons, indicating the validity of the first model. Recent density func- tional theory calculations of bulk CeO2 and Ce2O3 were presented by Skorodumova et al.,[34] in the framework of the full-potential linear muffin-tin orbital (FP-LMTO) method. The best agreement with experiment for CeO2 was obtained by treating the cerium 4f-functions as part of the valence region. However, in studying fully reduced ceria, Ce2O3, the same authors found that in order for the Ce4f electrons to be correctly localised,they had to be treated as core states. Treating the 4f electrons as valence electrons, resulted in an incorrect partially filled f-band at the Fermi level. Choosing the f electrons to be core or valence depending on the problem at hand is
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
219 clearly not a satisfactory way of understanding the electronic structure of ceria.
In addition to studying the bulk properties of ceria, Gennard et al. [33] also studied the (111) and (110) surfaces using HartreeFock. Recently, Skorodumova et al. [35] have studied the surface energies and structures of the (111), (110) and (100) surfaces using density functional theory.
Both of the ab initio studies are in agreement with atomistic simulations regarding the relative stability of the surfaces, (111) > (110) > (100),although DFT predicts smaller surface energies than atomistic simulations and HartreeFock [35].
In this paper we present periodic density func- tional theory (DFT) calculations of bulk and the three low index surfaces of pure ceria. We also consider reduction of the (100) surface through formation of oxygen vacancies on the (100) sur- face. We analyse the structural and electronic properties by means of the density of states,charges and the charge density. We demonstrate the presence of unoccupied Ce4f electronic states above the Fermi level. Reduction of the (100) sur- face leads to occupied Ce4f states which are found to be delocalised over all of the cerium atoms with- in the simulation cell using GGA-DFT. In order to correctly describe the localisation of these elec- trons, we use the DFT+U [36] methodology to correct this failing of DFT for the (100) surface of ceria. In addition we also examine how the DFT+U approach affects the resulting atomic structure of the defective surface.
2. Computational methods
The DFT calculations were performed using the Vienna ab initio simulation package VASP [3739] which utilises a plane-wave basis set for the description of the valence electrons. In the present study, we have employed the projector-augmented wave (PAW) method [40,41] to accurately repro- duce the effect of the core electrons on the valence electrons, with [He] and [Xe] cores for oxygen and cerium. For the exchange-correlation functional the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) of Perdew and Wang (PW91) [42] was used. The ions were relaxed towards equilibrium using the quasi-Newton method until the forces were less than 0.01 eV/A (applying a tighter convergence criterion of 0.005 eV/A in the forces had no signif- icant effect on the distances). For the oxygen defect vacancy structures, fully spin polarised calcula- tions were carried out and the calculations were also performed within the DFT+U methodology [36], using a value of U = 5 eV. This is in reason- able agreement with earlier DFT+U studies of Ce metal [43], where a value of 6.1 eV was used.
To ensure the convergence of the calculations,we computed the total energy and the equilibrium volume of the bulk CeO2 unit cell for plane-wave energy cut-offs in the range of 300 eV and 600 eV and on MonkhorstPack grids of (2 · 2 · 2),(4 · 4 · 4) and (6 · 6 · 6) k-points. The equilib- rium structure was obtained by fitting a series of volume-energy data to the Murnaghan equation of state. The results show that the calculations are well converged for a k-point grid of (4 · 4 · 4) and an energy cut-offof 500 eV and are accurate to 0.01 A 3 in the equilibrium volume and to 0.02 eV in the total energy.
The surface calculations were performed using the slab method [44], in which a finite number of crystal layers in a three dimensional periodic cell is used to generate two surfaces via the introduc- tion of a vacuum gap perpendicular to the surface.
The vacuum gap must be large enough that inter- actions between the periodic images perpendicular to the surface are minimised. The slab must also be of sufficient thickness that the structure in the mid- dle of the slab is sufficiently bulk-like. The surface energies calculated in this work are converged to
0.01 J/m2 with respect to both the number of layers
in the slab and the vacuum thickness, where a 15 A
vacuum gap was used throughout. For the (111) surface a thickness of 10.5 A (4 atomic layers) was sufficient. For the (110) and (100) surface calculations a thickness of 11.5 A (7 atomic lay- ers) and 18.6 A (15 atomic layers) was required.
The thicker slabs for the latter two surfaces are necessary given their stronger relaxations in com- parison to the (111) surface. For the surface calcu- lations a (4 · 4 · 1) k-point grid was used, with the third vector perpendicular to the surface, and the energy cut-offof the converged bulk calculation (500 eV). 220
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
3. Results and discussion
3.1. The low index surfaces of ceria
We have investigated the energies and proper- ties of the three low index surfaces (111), (110) and (100), see Fig. 1. The (111) surface is classi- fied as a type 2 surface [15] and consists of neutral (anioncationanion) repeat units and thus has no net dipole moment perpendicular to the surface.
The (110) surface is a type 1 surface and is composed of stoichiometric layers and is therefore also charge neutral. In contrast, the type 3 (100) surface consists of a sequence of charged (cation anion) planes, which results in a dipole perpendic- ular to the surface vector. Since the surface energy of dipolar surfaces is theoretically infinite we fol- lowed the prescription of Ref. [45] and removed the dipole moment by moving every second row of oxygen atoms from one side of the slab to the other side resulting in a surface termination with a 50% vacant oxygen layer. While some atomistic studies have considered cation terminated (100) surfaces [4,10,23], these studies and experimental data [4,10,16] support anion termination of this surface.
The lattice constant of bulk ceria obtained in this work is 5.470 A , and is compared to the results of previous studies in Table 1. This is within 1.09% of the experimental value of 5.411 A , indicating that the DFT calculations give a reliable descrip- tion of the structural properties of ceria. However,the calculated bulk modulus of ceria is notably smaller than the experimentally determined value.
Previous HF [33] and DFT [34] calculations have also underestimated the bulk modulus of ceria,while interatomic potentials generally overestimate this quantity [4,19,33].
In Table 2 the surface energies of the unrelaxed and relaxed surfaces are shown. It is found that the relative stability of the surfaces decreases in the order (111) > (110) > (100) and the relaxation energy increases in the order (111) < (110) < (100). Physically that is what one would ex- pectthe defective type 3 (100) surface is unstable and thus undergoes significant rearrangements,which results in a greater energy gain due to the relaxation. The relative magnitudes of the surface Fig. 1. Relaxed structures of the (a) (111), (b) (110), and (c) (100) surfaces of ceria. In these figures, the dark spheres are oxygen ions and the light spheres are cerium ions.Table 1 Lattice parameter and bulk modulus of ceria from the DFT and IP calculations Method Lattice parameter (A ) Bulk modulus (GPa) DFTa
5.470
172
LDA [34]
5.390
214.7
GGA-DFT [34]
5.480
187.7
LDA [35]
5.370
GGA-DFT [35]
5.470
HF [32]
5.385
357
HF [33]
5.546
221
IP [4]
5.411
263
IP [19]
5.411
268
IP [19]
5.411
289 Experiment
5.411 [2]
236 [48] a Present work.
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
221 energies are in agreement with experimental obser- vations that the (110) and (100) surfaces are less stable than the (111) surface. The difference in sur- face energy between the (110) and (100) surfaces is smaller than the difference between these sur- faces and the (111) surface.
While the ordering of the surface energies ob- tained in the present work is the same as that found in earlier studies, the magnitudes of the sur- face energies are significantly smaller than the val- ues obtained using atomistic simulation [4,17,21].
The surface energies calculated with HF for the (111) and (110) surfaces in [33] lie within the range of values obtained in the atomistic simula- tion studies. In [33] an a posteriori correlation cor- rection was added using the functional of Perdew and Wang and resulted in an increase in the sur- face energies so that they lie slightly above the atomistic simulation results. The present results are similar to the results from Skorodumova et al., also obtained within DFT [34]. A possible explanation for the comparatively smaller DFT surface energies could be due to the self-consistent inclusion of electronic correlation effects in the DFT formalism.
Fig. 2 shows the ionic displacements perpendic- ular to the surfaces after relaxation. Positive values indicate that the ions relax out of the surface,whereas negative values indicate a displacement into the bulk. As the (111) surface is the most clo- sely packed and stable surface, the relaxations (Fig. 2a) are rather small. The overall effect is an inward shift of the surface layer. The atomic dis- placements in this surface are smaller than those using HF [33] and atomistic simulation [4,33].
The CeO distances around the surface layer con- tract, but by no more than 0.01 A (0.5%).
Table 2 Unrelaxed and relaxed surface energies of the low index surfaces of ceria from ab initio and IP calculations Method DFTa LDA [35]
GGA
[35]
HF
[33]
IP-MD
[23]
IP
[4]
IP
[19]
IP
[35] (111) Eunrelaxed
0.69
1.06
0.69
1.34 1.44
1.70 1.63 1.65
Erelaxed
0.68
1.04
0.68
1.31 1.12
1.54 1.35 1.05
(110) Eunrelaxed
1.26
1.55
1.25
2.61 3.37
3.59
3.47
Erelaxed
1.01
1.35
1.05
2.11 2.07
2.45 2.10 1.19
(100) Eunrelaxed
2.05
2.06
6.31
6.46
6.23
Erelaxed
1.41
1.41
2.41
3.25
3.11
a Present work.
Fig. 2. Ionic displacements for the low index surfaces of ceria.
(a): (111) surface, (b): (110) surface and (c): (100) surface. The X-axis is the depth into the structure from the surface layer,while the Y-axis is the ionic relaxation in the vertical direction. 222
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
For the relaxation of the (110) surface (Fig. 2b) one can observe rumpling in the surface layer sim- ilar to that seen for the (100) surfaces of rock salt structured oxides [46]; while both ions are shifted inwards, the inward displacement of the cerium ions is notably larger than the displacement of the oxygen ions. This is due to the charge on the cerium atom causing it to be pulled into the bulk.
The (110) surface is the only surface which under- goes lateral displacement. The oxygen ions are shifted towards the nearest cerium ion in the same layer, so that the extension of the bond-length due to the vertical relaxation is compensated. The re- sult is that the CeO distances in the surface layer are 2.33 A (contraction of 1.7%), while in the sec- ond layer, a contraction of 2.50% in the CeO dis- tance is observed; the bulk CeO distances are
2.37 A
. The displacements computed in the present work are in agreement with HF results [33], and smaller than those computed with the IP methods [23,33,35].
The (100) surface undergoes the strongest relaxations, Fig. 2c. The surface oxygen ions are only two coordinate resulting in a large shift in- wards and a contraction of 7.60% in the CeO dis- tance directly below the surface vacancy. Each of the other oxygen layers is split upone half of the oxygen ions are shifted out towards the sur- face, while the other half (directly below the surface oxygen) relaxes into the bulk. Moving in- wards, we observe that contraction of the CeO distances is less strong compared to that for the surface layer; a contraction of 5.50% is found in the second layer with the distances in the middle of the slab close to bulk values.
In the following we analyse the electronic prop- erties of the surfaces. The projected density of states (PDOS) of the surface layers are displayed in Fig. 3, along with the PDOS for the cerium and oxygen atoms of the bulk. For the projection onto spherical harmonics, we used WignerSeitz radii of 1.5 A for Ce and O. For the (100) surface we have plotted the atom and angular momentum projected DOS of the surface layer together with the total and projected DOS curve for bulk CeO2 (see Fig. 3). The low lying cerium 5s band found at an energy of 33 eV is not included in the plot.
The band found between 20 eV and Fig. 3. Ce (left) and O (right) PDOS for bulk CeO2 (top) and the (100) surface (bottom). The zero of energy is set to the top of the valence band and the smearing width is set to 0.07 eV.
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
223 10 eV below the valence band arises from interac- tions between cerium 5p and oxygen 2s states. The valence band is composed of predominantly oxy- gen 2p states with a small admixture of Ce5d and 4f. Above the valence band we find a narrow unoc- cupied band derived from Ce4f. Finally, the con- duction band is made up of Ce5d states. Note also the presence of O2p states in the Ce5p/O2s bands, presumably an artefact that is due to the WignerSeitz radii used in the projection. The O2p contribution to the unoccupied Ce4f band on the other hand is probably real and may indicate that ceria is not fully ionic. This is also indicated by the presence of a Ce4f contribution to the valence band DOS. The band-gaps of 1 eV between the va- lence band and the Ce4f band and 5 eV between the valence band the empty Ce5d band show the usual underestimation of band gaps obtained from DFT calculations; the experimental band gaps taken from XPS spectra [28] are 3 eV and 6 eV.
A comparison of the projected DOS of the sur- face layer and the DOS of the bulk shows that the main changes occur in the valence states, those being predominantly oxygen 2p. The change in the DOS for the (111) and (110) surfaces com- pared to bulk are very small with the largest changes seen for the (100) surface, which also undergoes the strongest relaxation. Due to the low coordination number of 2 there is a destabili- sation of the 2p states in the surface oxygen atoms,which results in a shift of the 2p projected DOS to higher energies, Fig. 3.
From the projection onto spherical harmonics,the ionic charges can be obtained in the different layers of each of the surface slabs. This procedure does not allow the absolute charge on the ions to be determined and therefore we discuss qualita- tively how the ionic charge is modified in the sur- face compared to bulk. The charges in the bulk are +2.72 on cerium and 1.49 on oxygen, sug- gesting that ceria is not completely ionic. We find that the charges of the ions in the different layers in the slab differ slightly from the values in the bulk. It is only in the surface layer that any notable change in the charge of the cerium and oxygen ions is observed. The most stable surface, (111), shows the smallest change from bulk, while the other two surfaces display a relatively larger change in the surface layer charges compared to bulk ceria.
For the (100) surface, we find a charge of +2.61 on surface cerium and 1.34 on surface oxygen.
In succeeding layers, the charges are very similar to the bulk charges.
We further investigate the electronic properties using the electron density distribution. Fig. 4 shows the partial electron density of the semi-core, Fig. 4. Partial charge densities for the (100) surface. (a) Semi-core states, (b) valence states, (c) localised Ce4f states. The scale is from 0 to 0.16 electrons/A
3.
224
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
valence and Ce4f states for the (100) surface. The charge density plots confirm that only the surface layer displays any (small) change in the distribu- tion of the electron density. We note that the charge distributions in the surface layers are in line with the contraction of the CeO distances in the surface layers already discussed.
The partial charge density in the energy range of the Ce4f states for the (100) surface demonstrates clearly that the Ce4f states above the Fermi level are in- deed localised on the cerium atoms. Note also the asymmetric density for the atoms in the surface layer, compared to the more spherical distribution for the atoms in the middle of the slab. This is due to the asymmetric electric field present at the sur- face. The distortion of the 4f states at the surface for the (111) and (110) surfaces is much weaker compared to the (100) surface.
Before we consider defects in the (100) surface,we briefly demonstrate that the DFT+U approach has little effect on the properties of the pure (100) surface. We find that there is no modification to the surface relaxations and that the charge density distributions and ionic charges are unmodified.
The only effect of U that is of note is that the en- ergy gap between the top of the valence band and the empty Ce4f band is increased by 0.67 eV over the GGA value.
3.2. Oxygen vacancies in reduced ceria
Since the exchange of oxygen between ceria and the atmosphere is of significant importance in the application of ceria as an oxygen storage material,we have studied oxygen vacancy defects in the (100) surface. Upon reduction of ceria, CeIV ions are formally reduced to CeIII, Eq. (1), and it is ex- pected that these ions will be localised around the oxygen vacancy sites.
For the present study, we consider the elec- tronic structure of the partially reduced (100) surface. To enable investigation of the oxygen vacancy a 2 · 2 expansion of the pure (100) sur- face was created with two vacancies, one on each of the surfaces, thus ensuring that the slab has no net dipole moment, Fig. 5. The slab thickness is
10.94 A
, 9 layers. The same plane wave cut-off energy (500 eV) and relaxation criteria (conver- gence in the forces to less than 0.01 eV/A ) and a 2 · 2 · 1 k-point sampling mesh were applied.
In UPS studies [3,13] of the electronic structure of partially reduced ceria surfaces, a new state is found in the energy gap between the top of the va- lence band and the bottom of the conduction band, which is suggested to be due to partial occu- pation of the Ce4f states, leading to formation of CeIII [3,13].
The electronic structure resulting from GGA- DFT gives rise to a DOS with no gap state be- tween the valance band and the conduction band Fig. 5. DFT+U optimised structure of CeO2 with two oxygen vacancies. (a) A view of the structure, where the large spheres denote the reduced Ce3+ ions. In (b) we show an expansion of the simulation cell in plan view, in which the large spheres indicate the positions of the reduced Ce3+ ions.
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
225 with the Ce4f states crossing the Fermi level. The partial charge density isosurfaces are displayed in Fig. 6(a) and (b), illustrating that the Ce4f elec- trons are delocalised over all the cerium atoms in the simulation cell. This behaviour is not that ex- pected for these electronic states and we conclude from the lack of a gap state and the charge density that GGA-DFT gives an incorrect description of the electronic structure of reduced ceria. This find- ing is consistent with the work of Skorodumova et al. [34] who showed that standard DFT is un- able to describe correctly the localisation of cerium 4f states in fully reduced bulk ceria, Ce2O3.
In other materials, similarly localised states are poorly described with standard DFT e.g. known insulators are found to be metallic with states crossing the Fermi level or an electronic hole is delocalised instead of being localised [47].
To correctly describe the electronic structure of the vacancy defect, we apply the DFT+U method- ology [36], which is one approach to correct for the inability of approximate DFT to properly describe strongly localised systems [47]. Briefly, due to the fact that the self interaction of an electron is not correctly cancelled in DFT, there is an artificial barrier to electronic localisation, since the self Fig. 6. (a) Isosurfaces of charge density for the defective (100) ceria surface. (a) Front view for U = 5 eV, (b) side view for U = 5 eV.
(c) Front view for GGA, (d) side view for GGA. The isosurface contours are 0.16 electrons/A
3.
226
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
interaction is biased towards delocalising elec- tronic states. The introduction of the on-site Cou- lomb interaction, U, helps to remove some of the self-interaction error, reducing the artificial barrier to localisation, forming localised electronic states,in agreement with experiment and contrary to the GGA result. The actual value of U is usually chosen to recover the correct value of an experi- mentally measured parameter, e.g. the magnetic moment or the band gap. For the present system,this is difficult, since we are dealing with a defect state. In the present work, we use the PW91 GGA and choose a value of U that leads to local- isation of two electrons in the Ce4f states for each oxygen vacancy and an electronic structure corresponding to that observed in experimental UPS spectra [3,13]. Using values of U in the range of 27 eV we have found that the degree of delocalisation decreases with increasing U. For U < 5 eV, significant delocalisation still persists,while for U = 5 eV and greater, the results are essentially converged, in that localisation is found to be essentially independent of the choice of U.In this work, we use a value of U of 5 eV, which is consistent with earlier work on cerium metal [43].The partial charge density from the DFT+U electronic structure is presented in Fig. 6(c) and (d) and demonstrates clearly the localisation of the Ce4f electrons on the surface cerium atoms neighbouring the oxygen vacancy. There is no extension of these states onto the subsurface atoms below the oxygen vacancy. The fact that the sub- surface Ce atoms nearest the oxygen vacancies are reduced is expected due to Coulombic interac- tions. Fig. 7 shows the partial cerium density of states of the oxygen vacancy defect (100) surface calculated with DFT+U. Here, we observe the appearance of a state in the previously empty gap between the top of the valence band and the unoccupied cerium 4f band. We note from the par- tial charge density in Fig. 6(c) and (d) that cerium 4f electronic states are occupied in the gap state PDOS peak and that the electrons are predomi- nantly localised on the cerium atoms neighbouring the oxygen vacancies; there is a small oxygen con- tribution to the PDOS and the charge density in the gap state.The DFT+U approach results in an energy gap of 0.90 eV from the top of the valence band to the new Ce4f gap state and an essentially unchanged band gap of 5 eV from the valence band to the Ce5d conduction band. The band gap from the valence band to the unoccupied Ce4f band is in- creased to 2.1 eV compared to the pure surface.The opening up of this band gap is not unex- pected, given that the DFT+U formalism is ap- plied to the Ce4f states and one function of U is to shift up the energy of unoccupied states, i.e. the unoccupied Ce4f states. The formation energy of an oxygen vacancy in ceria was calculated with GGA and DFT+U, see Eq. (1). With DFT+U, the calculated vacancy formation energy is 4.55 eV,which is a reduction of 0.83 eV from the calculated GGA value of 5.38 eV.Comparing the geometry of the defective sur- face optimised with DFT+U to the geometry of the pure (100) surface, we find for the defective surface that the CeO distances neighbouring the vacancy are shortened by 0.60%. Relaxation of the defective geometry with GGA-DFT results in a geometry whereby the contraction of the CeO distances is stronger compared to DFT+U. The contraction of the CeO distance s neighbouring the vacancy is 2.10% for the GGA-DFT geometry compared to the contraction of 0.60% obtained in the DFT+U geometry suggesting that GGA-DFT overestimates contraction of the CeO distances in the vacancy defect structure. The differing Fig. 7. Ce Partial density of states for partially reduced CeO2(100) surface computed with DFT+U, where U is 5 eV.The zero of energy is set to the top of the valence band and the smearing width is 0.07 eV.
M. Nolan et al. / Surface Science 576 (2005) 217229
227 structures found for GGA-DFT and DFT+U are consistent with the localisation of CeIII states and demonstrate the importance of self-consistent relaxations with DFT+U.
4. Conclusion
We have presented the results of DFT calcula- tions of the low index surfaces of ceria. It has been shown that the order of stability of the surfaces is (111) > (110) > (100), while the extent of surface relaxations is in the inverse order. The electronic properties of the surfaces were studied through the charges, the density of states and the charge density.
The investigation of ceria surfaces confirms the presence of some covalent bonding be- tween cerium and oxygen and the localised atomic- like character of the unoccupied Ce4f electronic states. Only the surface atoms show a significant change in the charge distribution in comparison to the bulk. The main changes occur in the oxygen 2p and cerium 5d states of the surface atoms.
Reduction of the (100) surface was studied with the introduction of oxygen vacancies. It was found that application of GGA-DFT to this structure re- sulted in delocalisation of the electronic hole over all of the cerium atoms within the simulation cell.
Applying the DFT+U formalism (U = 5 eV), we find upon introducing oxygen vacancies:(i) Only the Ce ions neighbouring the vacancy are reduced from CeIV to CeIII, i.e. Ox
O
2Cex Ce ! V O  2Ce0 Ce.
The charge density plots demonstrate that the electronic states are localised on the two CeIII ions neighbour- ing the oxygen vacancy site. The remaining Ce ions remain in the unreduced CeIV state.
(ii) In the density of electronic states, a new peak,due to the CeIII ions, appears in the previ- ously empty band gap between the top of the valence band and the unoccupied cerium 4f (CeIV) states.
(iii) In addition, use of the DFT+U formalism results in different structures compared to GGA-DFT, consistent with the localised CeIII species, indicating the importance of self-con- sistent relaxation when applying DFT+U.
Thus, a modification of DFT to correct for the self interaction error, such as the DFT+U method- ology is necessary for the determination of the nat- ure of the electronic structure of defective sites in CeO2.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 