<quotes>
Among the most significant results, a strong inhibition of the tetralin conversion to decalin has been observed when either phenanthrene or naphthalene is present in the feed. Reversible drops in tetralin conversion of almost two orders of magnitude were observed when the 2- and 3-ring aromatics were present in the reactor, even in minute concentrations. That is, tetralin conversion could only be achieved after essentially all the 2- and 3-ring aromatics were converted.

The addition of F has a positive impact on the activity under sulfur. Significantly higher activity was observed on the F-promoted catalyst than on the unpromoted Pt-Pd catalyst when the feed contained 1000 ppm S. Interestingly, the inhibition by sulfur compounds strongly depended on the space velocity. At high space velocities and low DBT conversions, the inhibition by sulfur was reversible. At low space velocities and high DBT conversions, the poisoning was irreversible.

Under the high space velocities used in these measurements, the conversion of the sulfur-compound DBT was low, i.e. <20%. Therefore, the concentration of H2S throughout the bed was relatively low. One may expect that at higher DBT conversions, the H2S generated may irreversibly poison the catalyst by forming surface sulfides.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The presence of phenanthrene or naphthalene in the feed significantly inhibits the tetralin conversion to decalin, causing a strong drop in conversion rates, even at low concentrations. Tetralin conversion is only possible after the majority of 2- and 3-ring aromatics are converted.

2. Fluorine (F) promotes the catalytic activity under sulfur conditions. The F-promoted catalyst exhibits significantly higher activity than the unpromoted Pt-Pd catalyst when the feed contains 1000 ppm sulfur. The inhibitory effect of sulfur compounds depends on the space velocity. At high space velocities and low sulfur compound conversion, the inhibition is reversible. However, at low space velocities and high sulfur compound conversion, the poisoning becomes irreversible.

3. At high space velocities, the conversion of the sulfur compound DBT is low, resulting in a low concentration of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in the reactor. At higher DBT conversions, the generation of H2S may lead to irreversible poisoning of the catalyst by forming surface sulfides.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 当芳环为二环或三环时，四氢化萘的转化对达林的抑制作用非常显著，即使在微量浓度下也会观察到转化率大幅下降。只有在大部分二环和三环芳香族化合物被转化为之后，四氢化萘的转化才有可能实现。

2. 添加氟（F）可以提高催化剂在硫存在条件下的活性。当喂料中含有1000ppm硫时，含氟催化剂的活性明显高于未添加氟的铂钯催化剂。硫化合物的抑制作用依赖于空间速度。在高空间速度和低硫化合物转化率的情况下，抑制作用是可逆的。然而，在低空间速度和高硫化合物转化率的情况下，中毒会变得不可逆。

3. 在高空间速度下，硫化合物DBT的转化率较低，导致床层中氢硫酸（H2S）的浓度相对较低。在更高的DBT转化率下，生成的H2S可能导致催化剂表面形成硫化物，从而引起不可逆的中毒。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
