<quotes>
[1] "Site competition is one of the most determinant phenomena that govern the hydrogenation rates on noble metal catalysts when a combined polynuclear aromatic feed is used. For example, the conversion of tetralin to decalin can only occur when most of the higher aromatics (phenanthrene or naphthalene) have been removed."
[2] "In the presence of sulfur compounds, Pt-Pd catalysts promoted with F showed higher activity than unpromoted Pt-Pd catalyst. The inhibition by sulfur strongly depended on the conversion of the sulfur compound. At low conversions, the inhibition by sulfur was reversible, but at high conversions, the poisoning was irreversible."
[3] "EXAFS analysis showed that the PtPd alloy was disrupted and PtS bonds were formed when exposing the unpromoted Pt-Pd catalyst to 1000 ppm DBT at high conversions. By contrast, when F was present on the catalyst, the PdPt alloy was not disrupted and PtS bonds were not formed."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Site competition plays a crucial role in controlling the hydrogenation rates of noble metal catalysts when dealing with a mixture of polynuclear aromatic compounds. For instance, the conversion of tetralin to decalin is possible only after the majority of higher aromatic compounds such as phenanthrene or naphthalene have been transformed. The presence of sulfur compounds affects the activity of Pt-Pd catalysts, with promoted catalysts showing higher activity compared to unpromoted ones. The impact of sulfur depends on the conversion level of the sulfur compound, being reversible at low conversions and irreversible at high conversions. EXAFS analysis reveals that the disruption of the PtPd alloy and formation of PtS bonds occur when the unpromoted Pt-Pd catalyst is exposed to 1000 ppm of dibenzothiophene (DBT) at high conversions. However, the presence of fluorine prevents the disruption of the alloy and formation of PtS bonds under similar conditions.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
位点竞争在控制贵金属催化剂处理多核芳香族化合物混合物时的氢化速率中起着决定性作用。例如，仅在大部分更高芳香族化合物（如苯并菲或萘）被转换后，四氢化物才能转化为十氢化物。硫化合物的存在影响Pt-Pd催化剂的活性，具有促进效果的催化剂显示出比未促进的催化剂更高的活性。硫的抑制取决于硫化合物的转化水平，在低转化率下可逆，在高转化率下不可逆。EXAFS分析表明，在未促进的Pt-Pd催化剂暴露于1000 ppm二苯噻吩(DBT)并在高转化率下时，会发生PtPd合金的破坏和形成PtS键。然而，在类似条件下，氟的存在可以防止合金的破坏和PtS键的形成。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
