<quotes>
Scheme 13. Artificial Photosynthesis for CO2 Reduction with Ru(bpy)32+ 

The systems studied for photochemical CO2 reduction studies can be divided into several groups: Ru(bpy)32+ both as a photosensitizer and a catalyst;171 Ru(bpy)32+ as a photosensitizer and another metal complex as a catalyst;172 ReX(CO)3(bpy) or a similar complex as a photosensitizer;172a,173 Ru(bpy)32+ and Ru(bpy)32+-type complexes as photosensitizers in microheterogeneous systems;174 metalloporphyrins both as a photosensitizers and catalysts;175 and organic photosensitizers and transition-metal complexes as catalysts.17

The aforementioned molecular sensitizers can be replaced with semiconductor electrodes or particles to achieve light harvesting. These systems may use enzymes or catalysts to promote electron transfer from the semiconductorsolution interface to CO2 or reduce CO2 directly.178,179 Typically these reductions require a potential bias in addition to solar energy input to achieve CO2 reduction and electrode corrosion is a major concern. This corrosion can sometimes be overcome using high CO2 pressures.180 

Interesting examples of stoichiometric photochemical reactions of CO2 promoted by metal complexes have also been reported. Thus, Aresta et al.181 found that CO2 can be incorporated into cyclopropane to afford butyrolactone. Kubiak et al.182 demonstrated the reduction of CO2 to the radical anion and subsequent coupling to cyclohexene via a Ni complex as proposed in Scheme 14.

Scheme 14. Proposed Mechanism for Ni-Mediated Photoinduced Coupling of CO2 and Cyclohexane

G. Chemistry in Supercritical CO2 as a Reaction Medium and Green' CO2 Chemistry

As noted above, CO2 is generally considered to be a green or environmentally benign solvent and is naturally abundant. CO2 has been suggested as a sustainable replacement for organic solvents in a number of chemical processes and is currently used in the extraction of caffeine, in dry cleaning, and in parts degreasing.125 While CO2 is certainly not a panacea, there are a number of characteristics which suggest that CO2 could provide environmental and economic benefits.

The nontoxic nature of CO2 has a number of advantages. For example, in food and pharmaceutical applications, CO2 use greatly reduces future liability costs and can also facilitate regulatory approval of certain processes. An example is the conversion of pharmaceuticals into nanometer-size particles for injectable uses.183 Another instance in which supercritical carbon dioxide could be advantageous is in situations involving contact between hydrophilic and hydrophobic solvents. In this case, the mutual solubility of the two phases is designed to be small. However, some cross-contamination is inevitable, typically leading to a costly remediation. The use of CO2 as the hydrophobic phase produces contamination that is both benign and readily reversible. Examples include liquidliquid extraction between organic and aqueous phases as well as emulsion polymerization of water-soluble monomers. In applications where emissions are unavoidable, CO2 is relatively benign to the environment. Examples range from use of CO2 in enhanced oil recovery to use as a foaming agent or as the solvent in dry cleaning.

Using supercritical CO2 as a solvent also has advantages that arise from chemical and/or physical properties. In reactions involving gaseous reactants in liquid phases, the use of supercritical CO2 with its ability to dissolve large amounts of most gases could allow kinetic control of reactions as opposed to limiting of reaction rates by the transport of the gaseous reactant across the gasliquid interface. In reactions where CO2 is a reagent, its use as a solvent would also favor the reaction. Carbon dioxide may also offer advantages in reactions such as free-radical polymerizations and oxidations where a chemically inert solvent is required.

H. Carbon Dioxide Fixation by Inorganic Materials

The reaction of CaCO3 and CO2 in water to form Ca(HCO3)2 is responsible for the fixation of large quantities of CO2 in the oceans. However, it is kinetically slow. Similarly, CO2 can also be fixed by naturally occurring minerals as shown in eqs 35 and 36.186 Although the reactions are thermodynamically favorable, they are slow and would need to be enhanced kinetically before they could contribute significantly to adjusting the carbon balance. Furthermore, this would generally require mining and processing large amounts of materials to store relatively little CO2. Currently, large quantities of CaCO3 are converted into CaO and CO2 (which is released into the atmosphere) in cement manufacture. If a natural ore could be substituted for CaO, a significant release of CO2 into the atmosphere could, in principle, be avoided.

I. Barriers to Further Progress

Social, economic, and technical barriers all exist to utilizing CO2 as a feedstock to produce fuels and chemicals. To make decisions on potential ways to address this issue, information is needed concerning (1) the magnitude of environmental consequences, (2) the economic costs of these consequences, (3) options available that could help avoid or diminish the damage to our environment and the economy, (4) the environmental and economic consequences for each of these options, (5) an estimate of cost for developing the technology to implement these options, and (6) a complete energy balance which accounts for energy-demanding steps and their costs.

Economic barriers to CO2 utilization can be associated with introduction of new products, the properties of which are unknown, introduction of new processes for existing products, and lack of complete life-cycle analyses for production of many chemicals. Polycarbonate polymers produced by copolymerization of epoxides and CO2 are examples of new products. As catalysts for these reactions improve, focus is shifting from the technical obstacles associated with production to potential markets for these new materials. The situation is not unlike that encountered with the first production of polymers that are currently used on large scales. Similarly, if alternative processes to produce existing products are found, introduction may be slow due to the large capital investments already made in current processes. For example, direct hydrocarboxylation of butadiene to adipic acid or production of polyurethanes from carbamates (both derived from CO2) could be economically and environmentally attractive. However, these processes may not be commercialized because of competition with existing processes which have incurred large capital investments. Finally, methods must be developed that allow complete life-cycle analyses of competing synthetic strategies.185 Analyses must include economic and environmental costs as well as the conservation of materials. It is possible that a process using CO2 as a feedstock could actually produce more CO2 than one not using CO2. Full life-cycle analyses should permit quantitative evaluation of how much CO2 is avoided by one process versus another. These analyses must also include the possibility of replacing fossil energy sources with nonfossil sources.

For fuels production, the availability of electrical energy or a source of H2 is critical. Electricity can be produced from either nuclear or renewable energy sources, and the electrolysis of water using this electrical energy could produce H2 from a nonfossil source. Nuclear energy currently accounts for approximately 20% of the U.S. electrical production. For the purpose of illustrating the potential of renewable energy sources, it is estimated that a 10% conversion efficiency of solar energy to methanol could produce one gigaton of methanol using 1% of the area of the United States.186 The theoretical efficiency of a single band-gap solar cell is 33%, and higher efficiencies are possible with stacked cells having different band gaps.187 For example, solar energy conversion efficiencies of 30% have been obtained with dual band-gap cells,188 and single band-gap devices have been reported with 25% conversion efficiencies.189 If CO2 could be reduced to fuels such as methanol and methane with a 75% energy conversion efficiency, ultimate solar energy conversion efficiencies in the 1525% range are not unrealistic. The crucial question lies in identifying materials, catalysts, and processing conditions that will afford these high conversion efficiencies economically since there are no fundamental thermodynamic barriers. However, there are significant issues involving how to account for the cost of H2, the energy required to produce H2, and the acceptance of nuclear energy.

Significant barriers exist in every area of CO2 utilization. For the synthesis of fuels and chemicals, many barriers are common and progress will require a better understanding of reaction mechanisms, thermodynamics of reaction intermediates, and structurereactivity relationships. Reactions of CO2 that must be better understood include CC, CH, and CX bond formation and CO bond cleavage reactions. For example, formation of CC bonds between olefins + CO2 and alkynes + CO2 appears to involve initial alkene or alkyne coordination followed by CO2 attack at an activated carbon atom.190 These reactions are effective for a variety of applications as shown in Scheme 15. However, for HOCH2COOH formation, CO2 coordination and reduction to a hydroxymethyl ligand (CH2OH) is proposed to precede CC bond formation (Scheme 16).166 The coordination site requirements in various CO2 transformations are also poorly understood, and systematic studies of this important mechanistic aspect are needed. Insertion of CO2 into MH bonds occurs via an associative pathway in which hydride directly attacks the CO2 carbon atom as an MO bond forms and the MH bond is cleaved (Scheme 17).191 This reaction may be accelerated by a vacant coordination site as in olefin insertion reactions; however, data are not available on this point. During many catalytic cycles, MH or MC bonds are formed; however, thermodynamic data for their homolytic or heterolytic cleavage are generally not available. Such data would be useful in designing new catalytic processes.

Scheme 15. Oxidative Coupling Reactions Involving CO2 

Scheme 16. Proposed Pathway for Reduction of CO2 to HOCH2CO2H 

Scheme 17. Mechanism for the Insertion of CO2 into a MetalHydrogen Bond

Factors controlling regio- and stereoselectivity of metal-centered CO2 transformations are also ill-defined. These may be important in polymer synthesis using propylene oxide and related monomers in analogy to propene polymerization. Likewise, chain transfer reagents to control polymer molecular weights are also needed. Catalysts with higher turnover frequencies than currently available are needed. Finally, extension of successes in polycarbonate synthesis to polyesters from olefins and CO2 is an attractive goal.

Regarding heterogeneous CO2 hydrogenation catalysis, the principal barriers are poor product selectivity and unacceptably high reaction temperatures. Thus, in ethanol production by CO2 hydrogenation, ethanol is generally one component of a mixture of alcohols and hydrocarbons, and more selective catalysts are needed. Catalysts capable of operating at lower reaction temperatures for hydrogenating CO2 to methanol are also needed. Current catalysts operate at 250 C and the thermodynamics for CO2 to methanol conversion are entropically unfavorable (and enthalpically favorable). At lower temperatures, the equilibrium concentration of methanol is higher, which would lead to higher conversion per pass and more efficient operation.

Electrocatalysts for CO2 reduction would permit the conversion of electrical energy to fuels in a single step, but many barriers exist. Heterogeneous electrocatalysts are needed that operate at lower overpotentials with higher selectivity. Although Cu electrodes catalyze CO2 reduction to methane, comparable catalysts for producing methanol are unknown. Methanol production has been reported at Mo electrodes but selectivity and current densities are very low, typically less than 40% and 1 ma/cm2, respectively.194 Similarly, homogeneous catalysts possessing all of the desired properties for CO2 reduction are not known. Fast, selective, and energy-efficient homogeneous electrocatalysts are known for reducing CO2 to CO but are unstable. Other catalysts operate at unacceptably large overpotentials, require Hg electrodes, or have low catalytic rates. Additionally, rapid and efficient homogeneous catalysts for catalyzing CO2 reduction by more than two electrons are unknown. Better understanding is needed of the requirements for reducing CO2 beyond formate and CO in either a single or sequential steps.

Photochemical processes offer an attractive approach to CO2 reduction using sunlight. However, significant obstacles exist such as the requirement of expensive sacrificial reagents, rather than water, to quench the sensitizer and to provide the thermodynamic driving force for CO2 reduction. Also, sensitizers more completely using the solar spectrum are desired. Direct photochemical reactions of CO2 complexes are rare and offer the possibility of coupling CO2 reduction to O atom transfer; such reactions have yet to be demonstrated.

Regarding supercritical CO2 utilization, understanding the binary and ternary phase behavior of CO2substratereactant systems is needed to conduct reactions under the most favorable temperature and pressure conditions (i.e., to generate the number of phases and phase compositions desired). Most catalytic reactions studied to date have not utilized catalysts specifically designed to operate in supercritical CO2. This led to solubility problems and use of catalysts not capitalizing on the properties of supercritical CO2.

J. Promising Research Directions

Future research objectives should be to overcome the knowledge barriers identified above and to provide a better understanding of CO2 chemistry and fundamental reaction processes. The production of chemicals and fuels from CO2 would be significantly enhanced by fundamental studies of the kinetics and thermodynamics of catalytically relevant CH, CX, MH, MX, and MC bond-forming and -cleavage reactions. Increased use of CO2 as a replacement for phosgene is another attractive goal. Catalysts that facilitate carboxylation of saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbons are another important objective. Biomimetic studies of CO and formate dehydrogenase and methanogenic enzymes are relatively unexplored areas. New catalysts for epoxide and olefin + CO2 copolymerization are needed that are less sensitive to water and oxygen, more active, and more stereoselective. Chain transfer reagents for such reactions are also needed. Catalysts for formation of polyurethanes and polyesters using CO2 as a monomer would also be desirable. Heterogeneous catalysts that are more selective and active must be developed. In situ techniques that lead to better structural characterization of catalytic intermediates are also needed (see Section V). Specifically modified surfaces to improve selectivity and surfaces modified with single-site catalysts are important areas for future development.

In photochemical and electrochemical CO2 reduction, protons are the ultimate source of product H atoms. A better understanding of features promoting selective reactions with either CO2 or protons is needed. Similarly, a better understanding of factors controlling formate versus CO production is needed as well as how they relate to ultimate methanol or methane production. New approaches to reduce CO2 by six or eight electrons with high selectivity and low overpotentials are required. Better understanding of CC bond-forming reactions is necessary to design catalysts that selectively produce ethanol or ethylene. First-row transition-metal catalysts and water-soluble catalysts will be important in reducing costs and in lowering resistive losses, respectively. Flash photolysis and pulsed radiolysis experiments coupled with time-resolved spectroscopy offers fundamental information on transient intermediates. CO2 complex photoactivation represents a possible route to CO bond cleavage coupled with O-atom transfer.

Supercritical CO2 is a relatively inert solvent for hydrogenations, oxidations, carbonylations, polymerizations, electrophlic reactions, and activation of small molecules. The study of catalysts designed specifically for use in supercritical CO2 is important for understanding reactions in this medium and factors influencing regio- and enantioselectivity. The ability to predict ternary and quaternary phase behavior would also significantly enhance development of this field. Heterogeneous catalysis in supercritical CO2 has received relatively little attention, although initial results using surfactants, micelles, and emulsions are promising.

V. Emerging Physicochemical Techniques and Research Directions

A. Introduction

Carbon management research and development will benefit greatly from the new techniques and directions of research that have emerged in recent years. Several techniques have been developed that permit molecular level characterization of surfaces in situ, under conditions employed in actual catalytic technology. These will be reviewed in the first part of this section. To achieve 100% reaction selectivity, catalyst particles with identical size, structure, and composition must be fabricated and their spatial arrangement should also be controlled. Such high technology catalysts can now be prepared by several techniques, among which electron beam lithography is perhaps the best developed. The new catalyst fabrication techniques are discussed in the second part of this subsection. Computer simulation and modeling is developing rapidly and promises to provide guidance and help to experimentalists working with problems of surface science ranging from structures of transition states to kinetic parameters of surface reaction dynamics. The state of computer modeling for surface processes is discussed in the third part of this section. Finally, combinatorial techniques for rapid screening of surface catalytic properties are reviewed in the final part.

B. In Situ Molecular Characterization Techniques

During the past 10 years, new techniques have emerged that permit molecular level studies of surfaces under actual reaction conditions. 195-206 Table 4 lists the principal characterization techniques that can be used at high pressures and temperatures at the solidgas interface and also at solidliquid interfaces with references to key review papers. Among these, sum frequency generation (SFG)-surface vibrational spectroscopy199 (e.g., Figure 12) and the scanning probe microscopies (scanning tunneling microscopy [STM] (e.g., Figure 13) and atomic force microscopy [AFM])202 have the sensitivities to be applicable for studies on small area (1 cm2) catalysts. Adsorptionreflection infrared spectroscopy197 and synchrotron-based techniques (grazing angle X-ray diffraction and X-ray absorption)204 can also be used for external surfaces with small areas. All the other techniques including visible and UVRaman spectroscopy198 and positron emission200 are more applicable to higher surface area (>1 cm2) microporous catalysts.

Figure 12 Instrumentation for the study of surface science and catalysis by sum frequency generation spectroscopy.

Figure 13 Scanning tunneling microscope images of Rh surface restructuring upon CO chemisorption.

Table 4. Molecular Surface Characterization Techniques Operating under High-Pressure Reaction Conditions

technique 1 isotopeexchange195 2 insituNMR196 3 Fouriertransforminfraredspectroscopy197 4 insituRamanspectroscopy(visible,UV, surface-enhanced)198 5 sumfrequencygeneration-surface vibrationalspectroscopy199 6 positronemission11C,13N,15O200 7 insituMssbauerspectroscopy201 8 insituscanningtunnelingmicroscopy202 9 insituelectronmicroscopy203 10 insituX-rayabsorptionspectroscopy204 11 neutronscattering205,206

Neutron scattering methods205,206 are emerging as a potentially powerful, microscopic probe for in-situ characterization of catalytic materials. The reasons are as follows: (1) neutrons have very low absorption cross-sections for most elements and can therefore easily penetrate most types of reaction vessels to probe real' bulk catalysts; (2) thermal neutron wavelengths and energies are well matched to typical interatomic distances and excitation energies, respectively, so that neutron scattering can be used both for structural (diffraction) as well as dynamic studies (inelastic neutron scattering, INS) over time scales from molecular translational diffusion through catalysts to molecular vibrations; (3) neutron scattering may also differ substantially between different isotopes of the same element so that isotopic substitution can produce scattering contrast, e.g., between a guest and the host material; and (4) neutron scattering occurs from atomic nuclei (a simple point interaction) so that cross-sections can be readily calculated. Recent advances206 in calculating (molecular mechanics, ab initio, scaled ab initio) molecular vibrational frequencies and associated vibrational amplitudes coupled with improved INS instrumentation have enormously increased the utility of this technique for studies of adsorbate vibrations and guesthost interactions.

There are several areas related to heterogeneous catalysis where neutron scattering techniques provide unique results. Virtually all such experiments can be applied in-situ, as recently demonstrated for zeolite crystallization. 207 A recent example of neutron scattering methods used in conjunction with theoretical simulations and optical spectroscopy are studies of adsorption complexes in zeolites, such as water 208 and halocarbons. 209 The geometry of chloroform in faujasite derived from computer simulations is shown in Figure 14. These predict that binding is dominated by a hydrogen bond between the CH group and framework O atoms. This prediction was verified by Raman and INS spectroscopies, which reveal, respectively, weakening of CH stretching and strengthening of CH bending modes upon H-bond formation. However, adsorption of single CHCl3 molecules does not result in a long-range ordered structure, so the molecule could not be located by conventional analysis of diffraction data. Instead, a differential pair distribution function (PDF) 210 was obtained from diffraction data for HCCl3 and DCCl3. 211 The differential PDF (analogous to an XAFS experiment on H) provides the first direct evidence for this guesthost H-bonding with a H···O distance of 2.2 Å.

Figure 14 Result of Monte Carlo docking calculations combined with Raman and inelastic neutron scattering studies of chloroform adsorbed in zeolite Y.209

The reviews referenced above also discuss the principles, instrumentation, and operating conditions of the various surface techniques. Experimental challenges include the continuous push for improving time and spatial resolution toward picosecond time response and nanoscale spatial sensitivity. The dream of catalyst scientists is to monitor the reaction of a single molecule on a sufficiently short time scale to identify the transition state including change of active site configuration as the product molecule forms. Developments in surface instrumentation are aimed at achieving this goal.

C. Rational Design of Catalysts To Achieve 100% Selectivity in Catalytic Reactions

Carbon management would greatly benefit from catalytic processes that can produce desired products with 100% selectivity. In this way, waste disposal or recycling of undesirable byproducts can be minimized. Rational catalyst design is at the heart of attaining this goal. Experiments indicate that selectivity can be influenced by the following variables: (1) changing the surface structure of catalysts, for example, by increasing the concentration of high coordination sites, defects (steps, kinks, vacancies); (2) blocking high coordination sites or blocking defect sites that strongly bind sulfur or other impurities; (3) controling diffusion paths of reaction intermediates by changing distances between active reaction sites or by constructing pore sizes in the molecular diameter regime; and (4) producing oxidemetal interface sites where both metal catalysis (H2, O2 dissociation, etc.) and acid catalysis (charge transfer at strong Lewis acid or Brnsted acid sites) can occur. There is evidence from surface science studies under reaction conditions that (1) there is large surface atom mobility that is essential during the catalytic process; (2) there are strongly adsorbed stagnant reaction intermediates that restructure the metal surface, thereby producing reaction sites; however, these intermediates do not turn over; (3) weakly adsorbed molecules or molecules that are present only under high pressure reaction conditions are frequently the reaction intermediates. All these features, the control of active structural sites, as well as the mobility of surface metal atoms and adsorbates must be part of the ultimate catalyst system that would be fabricated on the nanoscale by rational design.

One way to achieve the above goals is by use of electron beam lithography to produce ordered nanocluster arrays of transition-metal catalyst particles on oxide supports. This lithographic technique which is widely used in the microelectronic industry is shown schematically in Figure 15. The Pt nanoparticle arrays that are fabricated this way are shown in Figure 16 as imaged by electron microscopy and in Figure 17 as scanned by atomic force microscopy. A minimum metal particle size of 25 Å can be obtained in this manner. The supports SiOx, Al2O3, and TiOx have been employed. Silver nanoparticles for application in ethylene partial oxidation to ethylene oxide must be deposited on α-Al2O3 because they form silver silicate via reaction with the silica support under reaction conditions. These nanoparticles exhibit remarkable thermal and chemical stability. They can be cleaned by low-energy (200 eV) Ne+ bombardment to remove surface carbon. The controllable variables in their fabrication include the diameter and height of the metal particles, the distances between particles, and the oxidemetal periphery area. Multimetallic arrays can be fabricated as well as alloy clusters, as desired.

Figure 15 Scheme for fabricating arrays of metal nanoclusters by electron beam lithography.

Figure 16 Transmission electron microscopy and electron diffraction. Characterization of metal nanoparticle arrays fabricated by electron beam lithography.

Figure 17 Atomic force microscopy. Characterization of metal nanoparticle arrays fabricated by electron beam lithography.

To mass produce the nanocluster arrays, imprint lithography can be employed by pressing the cluster array into a viscoelastic polymer. The indentation can then be ion etched to reproduce the structure of the original array. To increase the surface area of the nano-fabricated catalyst, the metal arrays must be produced in three dimensions. In this way, by fabricating nanosize channels, catalysts with surface areas 100 m2/cm3 can be produced.

Other techniques aimed at producing unique new catalysts with nano-controlled structure include (1) deposition of transition-metal clusters in zeolite cages, (2) spin-coating of metal clusters onto flat supports by nucleation and growth from solution, and (3) uniform nanocluster fabrication in surfactant solutions by colloid preparation techniques. In this circumstance, the nanoclusters are capped with an organic coating that must be removed to produce the active catalyst surface. Importantly, 100% selectivity in catalytic reactions can only be achieved if there is a concerted research program initiated to produce catalysts by rational design with nanoscale control of the fabrication process.

D. Computer Simulation-Modeling

To address the complex issues of carbon management research, all available tools at our disposal must be employed. The chemical research enterprise is undergoing a revolution as it exploits advances in computer hardware and software and in new mathematical and theoretical approaches. There have been important advances in the area of electronic structure methods 212 so that computation now rivals experiment in terms of accuracy for predicting small molecule thermochemistry. In addition, it is now possible to make predictions about the behavior of molecular ensembles using the techniques of molecular simulation. The exploding number of scientific papers citing computational chemistry results and the recent Nobel Prizes awarded to Professors John A. Pople and Walter Kohn 213 for pioneering work in this area are clear indications that chemical process modeling has reached a significant development point.

Modeling, theory, and simulation can enhance our understanding of known systems. They can provide qualitative/quantitative insights into experimental results and guide the choice of which experimental system to study and/or enable design of new systems. This is most useful if the simulation approach has been benchmarked on well-established systems. Furthermore, simulation allows exploration of temporal and/or spatial domains not accessible by present experimental methods. A critical aspect for quantitative simulations is the need for high accuracy. For example, a factor of 24 in catalyst efficiency may determine whether a process is economically viable. A factor of 4 in a rate constant at 25 C corresponds to a change in activation energy of 1 kcal/mol, while for a 50:50 starting mixture of two components, a ΔG change of less than 1.5 kcal/mol changes the equilibrium constant by a factor of 10, leading to a 90:10 mixture at 25 C. These accuracy requirements in turn require the ability to predict thermodynamic quantities such as bond dissociation energies (De or D0) and heats of formation (ΔHf) to better than 1 kcal/mol and activation energies to within a few tenths of a kcal/mola daunting task.

Dramatic improvements in computers have occurred over the past 20 years with the development of vector and vector/parallel computers, RISC architectures, powerful desktop computing, and, more recently, massively parallel computing systems based on lower cost RISC processors. With the availability of high-performance computers, new algorithms, and new theoretical methods have been developed to take advantage of increased computational power. Furthermore, the development of moderate cost, high-performance workstations has made it easier to generate input data and to analyze and view results of large calculations as well as to perform reasonably complex calculations. By combining workstation processors into massively parallel computing (MPP) systems with distributed memory, it is now possible to attain >250 Gflops of peak performance for reasonable cost, and the cost of teraflop computing will soon be within reach of many laboratories. Furthermore, with the advent of easier-to-use software coupled with user-friendly graphical interfaces, access to high-performance computing is becoming available to a broad user community. 214 Along with hardware advances have come dramatic advances in software and algorithm development. To make optimal use of massively parallel computers, software must be created which is scaleable in terms of the number of nodes, in terms of problem size, and is portable to different computer architectures for broad applicability with minimal cost for porting. Finally, software must be high performance and take full advantage of modern theoretical and algorithmic advances. Such software, together with the tools developed to operate and utilize massively parallel computer systems as well as the software needed to handle and interpret the large amounts of data generated, represent as important a part of the revolution as the computers. A key component of any successful scientific software development program is the use of teams of computer scientists, applied mathematicians, application developers, and users to design and implement software. This synergy facilitates development of the highest performing software with the best algorithms and the longest in-use lifetime. These advances and their implications for catalysis research have been reviewed 215 and noted in the U.S. chemical industry Technology Vision 202011 report.

E. Computational Thermochemistry

Thermodynamic properties play a critical role in the design of most industrial chemical processes and are critical to understanding a wide range of chemical behavior. Extensive tabulations of thermodynamic data are available, but there are often significant holes due to the lack of experimental information and/or to difficulties in interpreting measurements. 216 There is less reliable thermodynamic information available for radicals or highly reactive intermediates because of difficulties associated with synthesis, isolation, and properties measurements. Scientists have therefore successfully resorted to computational methods to obtain molecular thermodynamic properties with high accuracy.

During the past five years, there has been a revolution in computing molecular thermodynamic properties from first principles. This reflects a combination of factors: development of efficient computational implementations of the coupled cluster methods CCSD(T) for treating the correlation energy or the n-particle problem, 217 development of a family of efficient, increasingly accurate basis sets (correlation consistent) for treating the 1-particle problem; 218 and continuing advancements in hardware and software technology, as noted above. 214,219 With current technology, it is possible to predict bond energies and heats of formation for molecules with six or fewer first-row atoms, including radicals and ions, to an accuracy of better than 1 kcal/mol as shown in Table 5. 220 The range of accessible molecules will grow dramatically over the next several years.

Table 5. Theoretical and Experimental Heats of Formation at 0 K (all energies in kcal/mol)a molecule (CCSD(T))b (expt)c ZPEd spinorbite core/valf scalarrelg ΣDeh CH 141.70.3 141.24.2 4.04 0.04 0.2 0.0 83.8 CH2 93.90.4 92.21.1 10.55 0.08 0.8 0.2 189.4 CH3 35.90.6 35.60.2 18.6 0.08 1.0 0.0 306.7 CH4 15.90.7 16.00.1 27.71 0.08 1.3 0.2 419.1 CH2O 25.10.3 25.00.1 16.53 0.30 0.9 0.4 373.6
26.81.5
HCO 9.80.3 10.31.9 7.7 0.30 1.2 0.3 277.9 CO 27.40.2 27.20.04 3.1 0.30 1.3 0.2 258.7 C2H4 14.60.6 14.580.07 31.5 0.16 2.3 0.3 561.6 aSee Dixon, D. A.; Feller, D. F. Chem. Eng. Sci. 1999, 54, 1929 for most of these results.bCalculated heat of formation.cExperimental heat of formation.dZero-point energy correction.eSpinorbit correction.fCore/valence correction.gScalar relativistic correction.hTotal dissociation energy at the CCSD(T) level extrapolated to the complete basis set limit.

F. Computational Reaction Kinetics

Besides the ability to predict thermodynamic properties, it is now possible to predict certain reaction rates with some reliability based on ab initio calculations. If one can predict such rates, then one can employ them in kinetic models such as transition-state theory or variational transition state theory, 221 to describe a chemical process in a large plant, or to describe the impact of a compound released into the environment, or to design a catalyst. Such a calculation has been carried out for an important reaction in the combustion of CH4 (eq 37).

The rate constant for eq 37 has been calculated at quite high levels, and the result is within a factor of 2 of the experimental value over a range of more than 2000 C. 222 Continued developments in computational chemistry will doubtless result in a major increase in the ability to compute molecular thermochemical and kinetic properties. Such information is critical to process design and design of new catalytic systems. With the expected advances in computational chemistry and computers, it will be possible to calculate such data with known reliability.

G. High-Throughput Screening (HTS)

Combinatorial chemistry and high-throughput screening have revolutionized pharmaceutical discovery. These techniques are now being applied to development of other bioactive molecules, such as herbicides and pesticides. A goal of the biological work is to use a standard synthetic method, for example, solid-state peptide synthesis on a chip, to generate a diverse library of structures simply and efficiently. These compounds can then be used in high-throughput screening tests to quickly search for structureactivity relationships and efficacy for a specific process. Similar techniques are just beginning to be used in catalytic science, for example, the generation of transition-metal ligands for homogeneous catalysis. 223 In addition to application of combinatorial approaches to catalyst design, these techniques have been used to design materials with improved magnetic, 224 ferroelectric, 225 and optical 226 properties (e.g., phosphors for advanced display technologies). It has been possible to develop spatially addressable arrays of thin films offering artificial lattices, epitaxial overlayers, and unique patterning. With appropriate masks, one can generate spatially designed libraries of thin films for use in screening. The chemical composition, the effect of employing different underlayers, and the thickness can be varied. These can then all be used in a single screening system, for example, to assay for catalytic activity in the case of heterogeneous catalysts. Techniques for deposition include RF sputtering and pulsed laser ablation for thin film growth, solid-state synthesis and thermal annealing, and the use of inkjet printers to deposit precursor solutions. Although application of HTS techniques to both heterogeneous and homogeneous catalysis is in its infancy, we expect research in this area to accelerate greatly in the coming years. 227 For heterogeneous catalysis, the principal limits are the spatial resolution of the masks, the resolution of the detectors and types of reactors that can be used, and the types of solid-state synthesis that can be carried out. For example, X-ray microbeam techniques based on synchrotron radiation including X-ray fluorescence, X-ray diffraction, and near-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy have been used to determine chemical compositions, crystal structures, and metal valence states in combinatorial arrays. 228,229

VI. Catalysis Related to More Efficient Engines for Transportation

A. Exhaust Aftertreatment for Lean Burn Engines1. Introduction and Current Status

Currently, approximately one-third of all CO2 emissions are derived from mobile sources, particularly automobiles and trucks, by combustion of fossil fuels in gasoline or diesel engines. Compared with current-generation gasoline engines, the overall energy conversion efficiencies of lean-burn gasoline and diesel engines are up to 15% and 30% percent higher, respectively, with a corresponding reduction in CO2 emission. These latter engines operate with much lower fuel/air ratios than the stoichiometric ratios in conventional gasoline engines. 230 However, a crucial condition for large-scale transition to the use of lean-burn engines is availability of exhaust gas emission treatment systems that can lower the level of nitrogen oxides, NO and NO2 (commonly called NOx), to environmentally acceptable levels. The catalytic converters used in present day passenger cars, using three-way catalysts, are unable to remove NOx from the emission of these lean-burn engines (Figure 18), 231 because these exhausts contain higher concentrations of oxygen than can be tolerated by these catalysts. Over the surfaces of these catalysts, the high concentration of oxygen in the emissions consumes the carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons by combustion (eqs 38 and 39).

These substances are also reductants which reduce NOx in the exhaust (eqs 40 and 41).

Therefore, new types of catalysts are needed. For diesel engines, there is another important issue, which is control of particulate matter emission. Developing highly efficient, economical, and durable exhaust treatment systems for such engines is therefore crucial for large-scale application in transportation, especially for passenger cars.

An ideal exhaust treatment system should be similar to current-generation three-way catalytic converter systems, i.e., passive and with a minimal need for consumer maintenance. However, at present there are no catalytic systems that have the activity and durability to meet industrial targets. Depending on the type of engine, the nature of the exhaust gas differs, particularly in temperature as well as in concentration and type of hydrocarbons. For treatment of exhaust from lean-burn gasoline engines, the operating temperature window is 350700 C, with occasional excursions to higher temperatures. For heavy-duty diesel engines, the operating temperature window is approximately the same; however, the hydrocarbon concentration is substantially lower. For light-duty diesel engines, the temperature window is 200350 C, with the possibility that the lower limit could be as low as 150 C.

Currently, the technology to remove particulate matter from diesel engine exhaust makes use of soot combustion with a fuel burner or catalytic soot combustion, via either a fuel additive or a catalyzed soot filter. 232 In the latter case, because of the high soot ignition temperatures, excessive build-up of soot prior to ignition can result in damaging temperature runaways. Furthermore, the oxidation catalysts are sensitive to sulfur poisoning and fuel sulfur can be converted to sulfates over oxidation catalysts, which in turn contribute significantly to particulate emission. Thus, further development of more thermally stable filter materials and more active and sulfur-tolerant catalysts are needed.

The catalytic NOx treatment technologies currently under consideration and their status can be summarized as follows. (1) Direct reduction of NOx with hydrocarbon reductants present in the exhaust gas and/or derived from injected fuel over an active and selective catalyst. Although this is a highly desirable approach, there are no known catalysts that can meet the economic and performance targets. A practical catalyst must be selective in terms of both reduction of NOx to N2 and not to N2O and reaction of hydrocarbon reductants with NOx instead of O2. Issues related to this technology are discussed below. (2) Direct reduction of NOx with other injected reductants, such as urea, over an active and selective catalyst. This is a technology adapted from treatment of exhaust from stationary sources, such as power plants. Very high conversions (>90%) of NOx can be achieved with known catalysts. 233 One disadvantage to consumers is the inconvenience of maintaining a reductant supply on board a vehicle. Also, an intelligent urea injection system would be required to minimize/eliminate NH3 slip and not to produce N2O. (3) Use of a chemical trap. 234 In this technology, the exhaust gas is passed over a bed that contains a catalyst that oxidizes NOx to NO2, which is then reacted with an oxide, for instance BaO, to form a nitrate. At regular intervals, the air-fuel intake of the engine is switched from fuel-lean to rich and the nitrate is decomposed. The released NOx is reduced to N2 by a catalytic component, also in the bed, that is similar to a conventional three-way catalyst. Performance degradation of the trap by SOx in the exhaust is a serious problem. Implementation of regulations to lower sulfur levels in the fuel and/or methods to decompose the adsorbed sulfate to regenerate the trap would make this a viable technology. However, this technology is more complex than a passive catalytic device. (4) Catalytic decomposition of NO. Although this is the most desirable approach because of its simplicity, the activities of known catalysts are orders of magnitude lower than the industrial targets. (5) Nonthermal plasma-assisted catalytic reduction of NOx. 235,236 In this technology, the exhaust gas is first passed through a nonthermal plasma and then to an NOx reduction catalyst. Alternatively, the exhaust contacts the plasma and catalyst simultaneously. This technology shows promising results on a laboratory scale (up to 60% NOx conversion at low space velocities), but very little performance testing has been carried out with real engine exhaust and no accurate energy balance has been obtained.

B. Issues

The vast majority of research in this area in recent years has been devoted to catalytic NOx reduction with hydrocarbons. Currently, three types of catalysts are being investigated: (1) zeolites containing transition-metal ions and their oxo complexes, (2) alumina-supported transition- and/or nontransition-metal oxides, and (3) supported noble metals.

Figure 18 Conversion efficiencies of NOx, CO, and hydrocarbon over three-way catalysts as functions of air/fuel ratio for a gasoline engine. Taken from: Shelef, M.; Graham, G. W. Catal. Rev. Sci. Tech.1994, 36, 433.

Zeolite-based catalysts for NOx reduction have been shown typically to exhibit high activity and selectivity over a temperature window of about 150 C at temperatures above 350 C. The most active catalyst in the class is Cu/ZSM-5, 237,238 where ZSM-5 is a type of zeolite with an MFI structure. Its activity is suppressed significantly by water vapor, which is present at 10% in engine exhaust. Fe/ZSM-5 is also very active and selective, and its activity remains high in the presence of water vapor (Figure 19). 239,240 For these catalysts, heating above the normal operating temperature must be prevented by proper engineering because of the low zeolite hydrothermal stability at high temperatures. In addition, the operating temperature window of these catalysts is rather narrow, and their efficiency depends on the nature of the hydrocarbon reductant. They are also sensitive to sulfur poisoning.

There are M/ZSM-5 active site models formulated on the basis of spectroscopic information. 241-244 For example, a dimeric FeOFe cluster has been proposed for Fe/ZSM-5 catalysts. However, most of the information has been acquired ex situ; there is very little information available under actual reaction conditions. It is known that hydrothermal degradation of catalysts is associated with dealumination of the zeolite and migration and agglomeration of the metal ions and oxo complexes. 245,246 However, the detailed mechanistic steps associated with deactivation, the kinetics of these steps, and their dependence on the metal ions as well as the zeolite structure and composition remain to be investigated. Likewise, information on the reaction mechanisms and energetics of the reaction steps is also incomplete. 247-250 Alumina-based NOx reduction catalysts have been shown to exhibit high activity and selectivity at temperatures above 425 C. At high temperatures, their activities are higher than zeolite-based catalysts (e.g., Figure 20 for a SnO2/Al2O3 catalyst); 251-253 however, they also have a relatively narrow operating temperature window of about 150 C. Their activities depend on the nature of the hydrocarbon and are suppressed by sulfur. They are potentially more durable than the zeolite-based catalysts, but there are insufficient data for definitive conclusions. More information is required on the reaction mechanism, energetics of the reaction steps, and nature of the active sites.

Figure 19 Conversion of NOx to N2 in reduction by isobutane over an FeZSM-5 catalyst. Reaction conditions: NO 0.2%, isobutane 0.2%, O2 3%, H2O 0% (---) or H2O 10% (; GHSV 42000 h-1). Data taken from ref 240.

Figure 20 Conversion of NOx to N2 in reduction by propene over SnO2/Al2O3 catalysts of various wt % Sn. Reaction conditions: 0.1% NO, 0.1% propene, 15% O2, 10% H2O, SV = 30000 h-1. Taken from ref 253.

Noble-metal catalysts are active for NOx reduction in the low-temperature region, 200300 C. However, the selectivity is lowabout 40% of the NOx reduced is converted to N2O instead of N2. 254,255 These catalysts are also sensitive to sulfur poisoning, and their activity is hydrocarbon-dependent. The state of the noble-metal surfaces and the reaction mechanism are not known.

C. Promising Leads/Research Opportunities

(1) New catalytic systems should be explored, including multisite catalysts in which different active sites have optimal performance characteristics for different steps of the overall reaction pathway.

(2) The composition, structure, and location of the active sites on the support must be better understood. This information, as well as that obtained from computational and modeling studies, will be essential for understanding the dependence of catalytic activities on the structure of the zeolitic and alumina supports.

(3) Changes in the active sites due to deactivation must be understood. The chemical steps in the deactivation process and the kinetics of these steps should be determined. The dependence of these on the support structure (especially zeolitic) and the active site chemical nature should be identified.

(4) Detailed reaction mechanisms must be elucidated for the various catalytic systems, using appropriate experimental and computational approaches. Applications of in-situ techniques should be very useful. Characterization techniques, such as transient kinetic measurements, isotopic labeling, and spectroscopic techniques, as well as use of model compounds and model surfaces, should be used.

(5) The dependence of catalytic activity on the nature of the hydrocarbon and factors that determine the operating temperature window should be identified and understood, especially with respect to the energetics, nature of the bonding, and reactivity of the surface reaction intermediates.

(6) The mechanism of NO decomposition in the presence of O2 should be elucidated to provide information for computational studies on the energetics of the reactions and search for much more active catalysts.

(7) Processes in nonthermal plasma-assisted catalytic reduction should be elucidated. The roles of the catalyst and plasma and the interplay between them should be identified. New and more active catalytic materials should be identified, and more efficient transfer of electrical power to the chemical reaction channels is desirable. Additionally, the cost and source of energy to produce the plasma must be better defined.

D. Fuel-Cell Powered Vehicles: Introduction and Current Status

Among the various technologies to convert fuel energy into useful power for transportation, fuel cells are considered by many to be the probable long-term replacement for internal combustion engines in automobiles and other transportation systems. 256 The most advanced fuel cells in terms of development are hydrogen fuel cells. However, because of the difficulties in storing large quantities of H2 on-board a vehicle compared to liquid hydrocarbon fuels and the lack of infrastructure to deliver H2, the current emphasis in the development of this technology is to combine the hydrogen fuel cell with an on-board catalytic reformer that converts a liquid fuel into H2. The leading candidates for liquid fuel are methanol and gasoline. Most of the major automobile manufacturers (Daimler Chrysler, GM, Ford, Toyota, etc.) have announced plans to introduce fuel cell powered vehicles by 2004, operating on H2.

The leading candidate under development as an on-board power plant consists of at least two units: a polymer electrolyte H2 fuel cell stack (PEFC, also referred to as the PEM fuel cell for proton-exchanged membrane fuel cell) and a fuel reforming unit. 257,258 Figure 21 shows a fuel processor flow diagram. A fuel processor consists of a fuel preheater/vaporizer for the liquid fuel and water. The vapor is fed to a catalytic reformer for conversion of the fuel mixture to a product rich in H2. There may be external supply of heat by burning the H2 in the exhaust gas. The reformed gas is passed over a watergas shift catalyst to lower the CO concentration and raise the hydrogen concentration. Finally, the gas is treated in a PROX reactor where CO is preferentially oxidized to CO2 with minimal loss of H2. It is possible that after-treatment of exhaust emissions may be needed, especially during start up and other transient operation conditions. The PEFC operates at about 80 C. It uses Pt or a Pt alloy as the electrocatalyst. These electrodes are easily poisoned by CO and sulfur. Therefore, the concentration of CO must be reduced to ppm level and even lower for sulfur. Research is underway to raise the PEFC operating temperature and the CO tolerance level to at least 100 ppm. 259 Figure 21 Simplified fuel processing flow diagram for an on-board vehicular fuel cell power plant.

Generating H2 by reacting water with a hydrocarbon fuel over a catalyst, whether oxygenated or not, is a highly endothermic process. Currently, there are two approaches to supply heat: 260-262 (1) introduction of air along with fuel and water to effect partial oxidation of the fuel and using the heat of oxidation for the steam reforming reaction which occurs simultaneously and (2) burning some of the fuel directly or in the exhaust and transferring the heat via a heat exchanger to the reformer. Ideally, the reformed fuel (called reformate) would contain only CO2, H2, H2O. In practice, depending on the operating conditions and the fuel, it also contains small amounts of CO, CH4, and other carbon-containing products. This requires treatment to lower the CO concentration to below 10 ppm. This can be accomplished by catalytic watergas shift (which also increases the H2 concentration) and either selective CO oxidation (oxidation of CO but not H2) or selective CO methanation (conversion of CO but not CO2 to CH4). Membrane separation using Pd or a Pd alloy may also be used, which, however, is not likely to be economically competitive. The purified reformate is then used in the PEFC. The most promising selective CO oxidation catalysts are based on Pt-group metals. 263-266 Although an intense development effort is being put into automobile fuel cell technology, a unit constructed using current generation technologies in all components is still far from meeting industrial performance and cost targets. The size, weight, and cost of the unit must be reduced substantially, and durability must be enhanced to meet the 10000 h lifetime goal, with operation that includes many cycles of start-up and shut-down. Since Pt-group metals are used in the various catalytic components, it is estimated that 100150 g of metal is required for a 50 kW fuel cell powered vehicle, versus about 25 g per vehicle used in the current catalytic converter for gasoline engines. 267 A less developed technology is the methanol fuel cell, where methanol is used directly as fuel without conversion first into H2. The advantage of this technology is a potentially more compact system, since the on-board reformer and the associated reformate cleanup subsystems are no longer needed. However, the current electrocatalysts are much less active for this reaction. Thus, a much larger and more expensive fuel cell is needed.

E. Issues

(1) Although an ideal reformate should contain only CO2, H2O, and H2, CO and other contaminants exist as undesirable byproducts. A comprehensive catalytic reaction network description is presently unavailable, especially for reforming with partial oxidation. There is little information on the mechanisms involved in these reactions, or the active phase and the active sites of the catalysts.

(2) Considering the cost and supply, the amount of Pt-group metals to be used per vehicle must be reduced by over 2 orders of magnitude. An alternative is to replace them with cheaper, nonnoble metals. In either case, the activities of these catalysts must be greatly enhanced.

(3) Pt-based electrocatalysts are sensitive to CO and sulfur poisoning. Developing electrocatalysts that are less sensitive to these contaminants will alleviate the need to purify the reformate.

(4) The large size and weight of the reformer is due to the low activities of the reforming and watergas shift catalysts. Additionally, some of these components are sensitive to sulfur poisoning. The active form of some of the traditional catalysts for these reactions, such as the Cu-based low-temperature watergas shift catalyst and the Ni-based hydrocarbon steaming reforming catalyst, is the reduced metal. It is oxidized by exposure to air and must be activated by in-situ reduction, resulting in slow start up. Ni is also pyrolytic. Thermal sintering of the active components causes deactivation.

(5) The optimal operating temperatures are quite different for the different types of catalytic units and fuel cells, with the efficiency of a PEFC being higher at elevated pressures. These characteristics necessitate cooling of the gas between stages and use of a compressor, which represent loss in energy conversion efficiency. The efficiency is also lower at the higher current densities desirable for practical applications.

(6) Provision must be made for operating cells which produce H2O in cold climates.

F. Promising Leads/Research Opportunities

(1) The reactions, their mechanisms and energetics, and the nature of the corresponding active sites involved in the reforming reactions should be elucidated, especially for the partial oxidation/reforming process. Owing to the complexity of such a process and the large number of reactions involved, it is likely that different catalytic phases and active sites are involved. Such information will be valuable in the search for more active and selective reforming catalysts that generate less CO and other contaminants.

(2) For selective CO oxidation in the reformate, it is important to minimize reverse watergas shift (producing CO) and methanation (consuming H2 fuel) reactions. Thus, elucidating the energetics and detailed atomic-level processes involved in selective CO oxidation under practical conditions is crucial. Better understanding the competitive interaction of CO, H2, and O2 with surfaces, especially in the presence of CO2 and H2O, may lead to higher selectivity by suitable modification of the catalytic components. Discovery of highly active, selective, nonnoble-metal catalysts for this reaction is also desirable.

(3) The interaction of CO with finely dispersed Pt-group metals and the modification by a neighboring second metal or metal oxide must be understood. The information would be valuable for developing more CO-resistant catalysts and electrocatalysts.

(4) New catalysts for low-temperature reforming and reformate treatment should be explored. Ideally, the reforming process can operate at the same temperature as the fuel cell to minimize loss in efficiency. Likewise, efficient electrocatalysts that operate at near ambient pressure would be desirable.

(5) The activity and durability of reforming and watergas shift catalysts must be enhanced. New methods to stabilize the active phases against sintering or new catalysts must be developed.

(6) More active electrocatalysts are needed for direct conversion of methanol in methanol fuel cells. To support this effort, the energetics of the various reaction steps in the direct conversion of methanol on electrocatalysts require elucidation.

VII. Summary

The goal of the  Opportunities for Catalysis Research in Carbon Management workshop was to review within the context of greenhouse gas/carbon issues the current state of knowledge, barriers to further scientific and technological progress, and basic scientific research needs in the areas of H2 generation and utilization, light hydrocarbon activation and utilization, carbon dioxide activation, utilization, and sequestration, emerging techniques and research directions in relevant catalysis research, and in catalysis for more efficient transportation engines.

Several overarching themes emerge from this review. First and foremost, there is a pressing need to better understand in detail the catalytic mechanisms involved in almost every process area mentioned above. This includes the structures, energetics, lifetimes, and reactivities of the species thought to be important in the key catalytic cycles. As much of this type of information as is possible to acquire would also greatly aid in better understanding perplexing, incomplete/inefficient catalytic cycles and in inventing new, efficient ones. The most productive way to attack such problems must include long-term, in-depth fundamental studies of both commercial and model processes, by conventional research techniques and, importantly, by applying various promising new physicochemical and computational approaches which would allow incisive, in situ elucidation of reaction pathways. There is also a consensus that more exploratory experiments, especially high-risk, unconventional catalytic and model studies, should be undertaken. Such an effort will likely require specialized equipment, instrumentation, and computational facilities. The most expeditious and cost-effective means to carry out this research would be by close coupling of academic, industrial, and national laboratory catalysis efforts worldwide. Completely new research approaches should be vigorously explored, ranging from novel compositions, fabrication techniques, reactors, and reaction conditions for heterogeneous catalysts, to novel ligands and ligation geometries (e.g., biomimetic), reaction media, and activation methods for homogeneous ones. The interplay between these two areas involving various hybrid and single-site supported catalyst systems should also be productive. Finally, new combinatorial and semicombinatorial means to rapidly create and screen catalyst systems are now available. As a complement to the approaches noted above, these techniques promise to greatly accelerate catalyst discovery, evaluation, and understanding. They should be incorporated in the vigorous international research effort needed in this field.

VIII. Acknowledgments

The authors thank the Council on Chemical Sciences of the United States Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Chemical Sciences, for sponsorship of the workshop that led to this article. We also thank S. Ahmed, D. Bennett, D. Clark, R. Farrauto, D. Hucul, R. Kumer, R.W. McCabe,W. Millman, S. Oh, G. A. Olah, K. Ott, C. Peden, L.C. Satek, A. Sattelberger, M. Shelef, N. Vanderborg, B. K. Warren, and R. Weber for helpful comments. We thank Ms. Alice Christensen, Mr. Mathew Metz, Ms. Leila Gosslee, and Ms. Margaret Marshall for essential logistical and manuscript production support.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The role of intramolecular C-H bond activation in the deactivation of supported alkene polymerization and metathesis catalysts involves the formation of π-allyl surface complexes and β-H transfer. For lanthanide/actinide-based catalysts, the key steps involve the coordination of the alkene to the metal center, followed by the activation of the C-H bond to form a π-allyl complex. This complex then undergoes β-H elimination to regenerate the catalyst and release the polymer or alkene. For silica-supported Re-based catalysts, the mechanism is similar but involves the reductive elimination of hydrogen to regenerate the catalyst. The deactivation pathways can significantly affect the performance and longevity of these catalysts, as they lead to the loss of active sites and the need for regeneration or replacement.

2. The consequences of these deactivation pathways on catalyst performance and longevity are substantial. For lanthanide/actinide-based catalysts, the deactivation can lead to a decrease in polymer yield and molecular weight control, affecting the quality of the final product. The process may also require additional steps for catalyst regeneration, increasing the overall cost and complexity of the manufacturing process. For silica-supported Re-based catalysts, the deactivation can result in a decrease in activity and selectivity, impacting the efficiency of the polymerization or metathesis reaction. Moreover, the need for frequent catalyst regeneration or replacement can lead to higher operational costs and environmental concerns due to the potential for catalyst leaching and waste management issues.

Both catalyst types face challenges in maintaining high performance and longevity due to the deactivation mechanisms. To address these issues, researchers might explore new catalyst designs, such as incorporating stabilizing ligands, modifying the support material, or developing more robust catalyst structures that can withstand the deactivation processes. Additionally, the development of more selective and stable catalysts could reduce the reliance on regeneration steps and extend the operational life of the catalysts, ultimately enhancing their performance and economic viability.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 支持的烯烃聚合和环化催化剂的内分子C-H键活化在其失活过程中起着关键作用，涉及π-烯丙基表面复合物的形成和β-H转移。对于镧系/锕系基催化剂，关键步骤包括烯烃与金属中心的配位，随后激活C-H键以形成π-烯丙基复合物。该复合物然后通过β-H消除再生催化剂并释放聚合物或烯烃。对于基于二氧化硅的Re基催化剂，机制类似，但涉及氢的还原消除以再生催化剂。这些失活途径对催化剂性能和寿命有重大影响，会导致活性位点的损失、需要再生或更换催化剂，从而影响最终产品的质量和制造过程的复杂性和成本。

这两种催化剂类型的性能和寿命都会受到这些失活途径的影响。对于镧系/锕系基催化剂，失活可能导致聚合物产率和分子量控制下降，影响最终产品的质量。此过程可能还需要额外的步骤来再生催化剂，增加整体成本和复杂性。对于基于二氧化硅的Re基催化剂，失活可能导致活性和选择性降低，影响聚合或环化反应的效率。此外，频繁的催化剂再生或更换需求可能导致更高的运营成本，并且由于潜在的催化剂泄漏和废物管理问题，也存在环境问题。

这两种催化剂都面临着维持高性能和寿命的挑战，由于它们的失活机制。为了解决这些问题，研究人员可能会探索新的催化剂设计，例如引入稳定配体、修改支持材料或开发更坚固的催化剂结构，以抵抗失活过程。此外，开发更选择性和稳定的催化剂可以减少对再生步骤的依赖，并延长催化剂的使用寿命，最终提高其性能和经济可行性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
