<quotes>
A new insight in the unusual adsorption properties of Cu+ cations in Cu-ZSM-5 zeolite
V.B. Kazansky, E.A. Pidko *
N.D. Zelinsky Institute of Organic Chemistry of Russian Academy of Sciences,
Leninsky Prospect 47, Moscow 119991, Russia Available online 24 October 2005

The conclusions about the structure of adsorption complexes were supported by the DFT cluster quantum chemical calculations. The obtained results indicated that in addition to the previously reported strong adsorption of nitrogen, the univalent copper also unusually strongly adsorbs molecular hydrogen and ethane.

Adsorption of hydrogen is the most amazing since the observed low-frequency shifts of the HH stretching vibrations were as high as about 1000 cm1. This is quite different from much weaker H2 perturbation by Cu2+ cations.

Adsorption of ethane by Cu+ ions also resulted in the low-frequency shifts of some of CH IR stretching bands up to 400 cm1.

The DFT cluster modelling indicated that both adsorption of hydrogen and ethane could be explained by interaction with the isolated Cu+ ions localized at the a sites of the ZSM-5 framework.

Quantum chemical calculations indicated the important role in the bonding of adsorbed hydrogen and ethane of electron back donation from dp-orbitals of Cu+ ions to the s*HH or CH orbitals.

The overall yield of Cu+ sites of the strong H2 or N2 adsorption is about twice lower than the total copper content.

During last 20 years, a great number of transition metal complexes containing intact molecular dihydrogen have been reported.

The first examples of alkane coordination by transition metals were reported upon application of the matrix isolation technique in the photochemistry of the d6 M(CO)6 carbonyls (M Cr, Mo, W) [38,39].

The coordination of alkanes to M(CO)5 fragment has also been observed by transient absorption technique in solution or in the gas phase in refs. [40 42].

More recently, the coordination of methane by the naked transition metal atoms has been directly observed in the low-temperature matrices.

Experiments on the oxidative addition and reductive elimination of alkanes from transition metal complexes also revealed the formation of alkane complexes as reaction intermediates.

The complexes with light alkanes have been also subjected to theoretical calculations in refs. [37,44], both as intermediates in CH activation, or as the independent entities. However, direct observation of these species has not been reported yet.

The number of sites of strong H2 and N2 adsorption were evaluated from adsorption isotherms of both these gases, which were measured volumetrically at 293 K.

The quantum chemical calculations were carried out within the gradient-corrected density functional theory (DFT) using the GAUSSIAN-98 program [45].

The calculated adsorption energies were corrected for the zero-point energies (ZPE) obtained from the vibrational mode calculations, whereas the correction for the basis set super-

To investigate the orbital distribution of electrons and to estimate the energies of donoracceptor interactions in the ethane adsorption complexes with Cu+ ions, the population analysis was performed using Natural Bond Orbital method program that has been attached to the GAUSSIAN-98 package.

According to the ref. [52], this method allows a rather reasonable description of different types of interatomic interactions and discrimination of their types, as well as analysis of the orbital populations and orbital energies.

The obtained results indicated that for the Cu/H-ZSM-5red sample the fraction of Cu+ sites strongly adsorbing H2 molecules corresponds to about 0.45 of the total copper content, while for the sample prepared by the high-temperature reaction with CuCl vapour to about 0.37 (see Table 1).

On the other hand, only about twice lower amounts of hydrogen and nitrogen adsorption in comparison with the total copper content, indicate that about one-half of the modifying Cu+ ions are accessible for both N2 and H2 molecules.

Moreover, about 20% of the Cu+ sites of the strong dinitrogen adsorption are inactive with respect to hydrogen adsorption.

This indicates that the Cu+ cations are strongly inhomogeneous and exhibit different adsorption properties.

Such inhomogenity could be explained by different coordination and accessibility or by different binding properties of univalent copper depending on different localization in the ZSM-5 framework.

The results of our DFT modelling explain inhomo- geneity of Cu+ adsorption sites even for the simplest example of a-sites with different localization of aluminum atoms.

These sites certainly correspond only to one of the possibilities of copper localization. However, even this simplest model illustrates the possible origin of inhomogeneity.

We also suggest that the Cu+ sites of the stronger N2 adsorption, which are inactive with respect to adsorbed H2 molecules could be strongly shielded with the surrounding oxygen atoms Cu+ ions.

Most likely, that the band at 4105 cm1 in the DRIFT spectra of hydrogen adsorbed by Cu(I)-ZSM-5 (Fig. 12(b)) belongs just to such sites.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The univalent copper cations in Cu-ZSM-5 zeolite exhibit unusual adsorption properties towards molecular hydrogen and ethane, with low-frequency shifts of the stretching vibrations indicating strong perturbation of these molecules. The DFT cluster quantum chemical calculations support the structure of the adsorption complexes. Electron back donation from the Cu+ ions' dp-orbitals to the s*orbitals of hydrogen and ethane plays a significant role in the bonding.

2. The yield of Cu+ sites strongly adsorbing H2 or N2 is approximately half the total copper content, suggesting strong inhomogeneity in the adsorption properties of the Cu+ cations in the zeolite.

3. The adsorption of ethane by Cu+ ions results in significant low-frequency shifts of CH stretching bands, indicating unusual perturbation of ethane molecules. Theoretical calculations suggest the formation of s-type adsorption complexes with Cu+ ions.

4. The inhomogeneity of Cu+ adsorption sites is explained by differences in coordination, accessibility, and binding properties of the univalent copper ions based on their localization in the zeolite framework. Some Cu+ sites with strong N2 adsorption capabilities are inactive for hydrogen adsorption.

5. The band at 4105 cm1 in the DRIFT spectra of hydrogen adsorbed by Cu(I)-ZSM-5 likely corresponds to Cu+ sites that are active for N2 adsorption but inactive for hydrogen adsorption.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 在Cu-ZSM-5沸石中的单价铜离子表现出对分子氢和乙烷的异常吸附性质，这些分子的伸缩振动的低频偏移表明了对这些分子的强烈扰动。DFT簇量子化学计算支持吸附复合物的结构。铜+离子的dp轨道向氢和乙烷的s*轨道的电子后捐赠在键合中起着重要作用。

2. 强烈吸附H2或N2的Cu+位点的数量大约是总铜含量的一半，这表明在沸石中的Cu+离子的吸附性质存在强烈的异质性。

3. 乙烷通过Cu+离子的吸附导致CH伸缩波数的显著低频偏移，表明对乙烷分子的异常扰动。理论计算表明形成了与Cu+离子的s型吸附复合物。

4. Cu+吸附位点的异质性由其在沸石框架中的不同位置引起的不同的配位、可接近性和结合性质来解释。具有强N2吸附能力的一些Cu+位点对氢吸附无效。

5. Cu(I)-ZSM-5中氢吸附的DRIFT光谱中4105 cm1的带可能对应于对N2吸附有效的但对氢吸附无效的Cu+位点。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
