I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


JOURNAL OF CATALYSIS
146, 40-55 (1994) Isobutane Dehydrogenation over Sulfided Nickel Catalysts Daniel E. Resasco, I Bonnie K. Marcus, Chen S. Huang, and Vincent A. Durante 2 Research and Deoe/opment Department, Sun Company, hw., P.O. Box 1135, Marcus Hook, Pennsylvania 19061-0835 Received June 22, 1993 revised September 22, 1993 We have studied the dehydrogenation ofisobutane to isobutylene over heavily sulfided Ni catalysts at 873 K. In the absence of sulfur but in the presence of hydrogen, supported metallic nickel catalyzes the rapid hydrogenolysis of alkanes, resulting in exceedingly poor selectivity toward dehydrogenation products. However, the hydro- genolysis activity can be essentially eliminated by proper sulfida- tion, resulting in high selectivity toward isobutylene production.
Due to thermodynamic limitations, elevated temperatures are nec- essary to attain reasonable conversions to isobutylene. Under these conditions, the formation of coke is rapid and is the main cause of catalyst deactivation. Treatment of nickel catalysts with relatively large mounts of sulfur-containing reagents results not only in dramatically improved selectivity but also in a decreased rate of coke formation. The catalysts exhibited activation periods of sev- eral hours until a maximum was reached when they were placed in the reaction environment at 873 K. This activation period did not depend upon the previous reduction treatment but did depend upon the time on stream. A correlation was found between the increase in activity and the growth of a carbidic phase on the catalyst. This species, characterized by TPO and XPS, reached a saturation value at a C/Ni ratio of unity, which was coincidental with the amount of carbon on the catalyst when it achieved its maximum activity. Two alternative explanations for the activation process are discussed. The first considers the participation of a nickel-earbidic-carbon complex in the reaction scheme. The sec- ond considers the creation of sulfur vacancies during the initial coke deposition period which would increase the exposure of a catalytically active Ni-S moiety.
1994 Academic Press, Inc.
INTRODUCTION
The increasing demand for certain olefins as chemical intermediates for the production of oxygenates and alkyl- ates for motor fuels, coupled with the plentiful supply of lower alkanes, provides incentive for the use of catalytic dehydrogenation on an industrial scale (1). Driven largely by the rapid growth in demand for tertiary alkyl ethers,the dehydrogenation of isobutane or isopentane to isobu- i Current address: School of Chemical Engineering and Material Sci- ence, University of Oklahoma, 100 E. Boyd St., Norman, OK 73019-
0628.
2 To whom correspondence should be addressed. 40 0021-9517/94 $6.00 Copyright  1994 by Academic Press, Inc.
All rights of reproduction in any form reserved. tylene or isoamylene, respectively, is receiving renewed attention since branched ethers are prepared by etherifi- cation of branched olefins with methanol or ethanol.
The dehydrogenation reaction is currently carried out in commercial processes in the vapor phase over chromia- alumina or noble-metal catalysts. Due to the endothermic nature of this reaction and the normally unfavorable equi- librium, elevated process temperatures are necessary to reach economically acceptable levels of conversion.
These severe operating conditions favor coke formation and catalyst deactivation. As a consequence, most of the commercial processes for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes require feeds diluted with hydrogen or steam and short reaction cycles with frequent regenerations (I, 2).
Improved process economics could result from the development of catalysts that perform well under severely deactivating conditions.
Previous workers have shown that the addition ofsmall amounts of S has beneficial effects on selectivity and coke formation. For example, Rennard and Freel (3) have shown that sulfur causes an increase in propylene yield over Pt-Re catalysts increased upon sulfiding. The effect of sulfur in reducing the rate of coke formation has been reported by Rostrup-Nielsen and co-workers (5-7, 14,over Pt-Re catalysts increased upon sulfiding. The effect of sulfur in reducing the rate of coke formation has been reported by Rostrup-Nielsen and co-workers (5-7, 14,15) for the case of steam reforming of CH4. The presence of half a monolayer of sulfur on the Ni surface strongly inhibited the rate of carbon deposition, while it did not inhibit the rate of steam reforming to the same extent.This effect has been explained in terms of the ensemble of atoms required to constitute the active site for each reaction. The ensemble for the steam reforming reaction is smaller than that required for coke formation. Conse- quently, although both rates decreased when sulfur was added, the coking rate did so almost 10 times faster than the reforming rate.In this paper, we describe the use of heavily sulfided nickel catalysts supported on nonacidic aluminas for the dehydrogenation of isobutane. We have demonstrated that versions of these catalysts are active and selective
DEHYDROGENATION OVER SULFIDED NICKEL
41 TABLE t Characteristics of the Catalysts Investigated Calcination Metal Alkali Thermal Dispersion Catalyst of support (wt%) (wt%) Treatment
(H/M)
A
1223 K (10 hr) 6% Ni 5% Cs Red. 873 K
0.35
B
1223 K I10 hrl 6% Ni 5% Cs Red. 873 K
0.34
leached w/acid
C
1223 K 10 hr) 6% Ni 3% Cs Red. 873 K
ND
D
NONE
6% Ni 5% Cs Red. 873 K
ND
E
1223 K (10 hr) 3% Ni 5% Cs Red. 873 K
0.5
F
1223 K •10 hr} 6% Ni 5% Cs Oxid. 623 K
ND
G
1223 K (10 hr)
0.35% Pt
8% K
Red. 873 K
0.85
I% Sn for relatively long reaction times under low hydrogen/ hydrocarbon ratios, resulting in an important advantage compared to the existing technology. We view the heavily sulfided nickel component present in these catalysts as a compound with different properties from those of metallic nickel rather than as a zero-valent metal modified by the presence of chemisorbed sulfur.
II. EXPERIMENTAL
Catalytic Materials Table 1 summarizes the differences in the various prep- arations reported in this work, i.e., the amount of Ni, the amount of Cs, the calcination of the support, and the thermal pretreatment of the catalysts. The material used as a support for the catalysts reported here was ),-alumina (CS331-4 from United Catalysts), ground and sieved to 18/35 mesh. Before any further treatment, the alumina was calcined in air at 1223 K for 10 hr. X-Ray diffraction powder patterns of the calcined material revealed a trans- formation to the theta phase. During this transformation,the BET surface area, as determined by nitrogen adsorp- tion conducted in a Coulter Omnisorp 360 instrument,changed from 225 m2/g for the fresh material to 130 m2/g for the calcined support.
In one of the samples, catalyst D, the precalcination treatment was omitted. In another sample, catalyst B, the alumina support was treated with a 1.0 M aqueous oxalic acid solution for 2 h at 348 K in order to increase the pore volume in the 10 to 20 nm pore radius range, as described later. To reduce the acidity, each alumina support was impregnated with an aqueous solution of CsNO3 using a liquid/solid ratio of 0.65 ml/g, and then dried in an oven at 423 K. The resulting cesium content was 5 wt% in all the samples except for catalyst C, in which it was 3 wt%.
Loading with Ni was accomplished by incipient wetness impregnation using a solution of Ni(NO3h. 6 H20 in ace- tone, keeping the liquid/solid ratio at 0.65 ml/g. The vol- ume of liquid used corresponds to the total pore volume of the calcined support, as measured by nitrogen desorption porosimetry. The resulting material was dried in an oven at 423 K. The nominal Ni loading was 6 wt% in all the samples except in catalyst E in which it was 3 wt%. The sulfiding of the samples was done in situ as described below.Before each run, the catalyst was placed in a packed bed reactor and reduced in pure hydrogen with a temperature ramp of 3 K/min up to 543 K and held at that temperature for two hours then further heated at 3K/min up to 873 K.One hour later, the catalyst was presulfided by injecting measured quantities of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) into the preheater section into a hydrogen stream. Unless oth- erwise specified, the amount of DMSO injected in each case corresponded to a S/bulk Ni molar ratio of I/2. Addi- tional sulfiding agents were studied in separate experi- ments.In one of the samples, catalyst F, the reduction treat- ment was omitted and the catalyst was preoxidized at 523 K before sulfiding. In this case, the sulfiding was done ex situ in a quartz reactor in two steps. In the first step, the DMSO was added to the oxidized sample at 473 K at a S/bulk Ni molar ratio of 1/2. Then the temperature was raised to 673 K, followed by a similar injection of DMSO.Finally, the catalyst was flashed with hydrogen for 30 min, purged with nitrogen, passivated in a 1% 02 atmo- sphere, and exposed to air.For comparison with the sulfided nickel catalysts, an unsulfided bimetallic Pt-Sn catalyst (catalyst G) was pre- pared. This catalyst was prepared by impregnation on the same calcined alumina used for the nickel catalysts. The addition of Pt was accomplished by incipient wetness impregnation using an aqueous solution of hexachloro- platinic acid in a 0.65 ml/g liquid to solid ratio, the concen- tration of the solution being adjusted to yield a Pt loading of 0.35 wt%. The addition of Sn was accomplished by 42
RESASCO ET AL.
impregnation with a solution of stannous chloride. The acidity of the support was then reduced by addition of potassium salts followed by heat treatments.
Catalyst Characterization The catalysts and their precursors were characterized by several techniques. The metal dispersions were mea- sured prior to sulfiding by temperature programmed de- sorption of adsorbed hydrogen in a AMI- I Altamira instru- ment after reduction at 873 K for 2 hr and saturation with pure hydrogen at 303 K. The data obtained by TPD of adsorbed hydrogen were calibrated against the volumetric hydrogen uptake measured for one of the samples using an Omnisorp 360 operating in static chemisorption mode.
Once sulfided, an XPS technique described later was used to guage relative dispersion of nickel sulfde species. To obtain a relative measure of the acidity of the support we used TPD of pyridine adsorbed at room temperature to saturation.
The pore size distributions of fresh and spent catalysts were determined by a standard nitrogen desorption tech- nique in an Omnisorp 360 using a cylindrical pore model.The carbon deposits were'analyzed by temperature pro- grammed oxidation (TPO) and reduction (TPR) in a quartz reactor directly connected to a thermal conductivity de- tector and a Hewlett Packard quadrupole mass spectrom- eter. The combustion of the carbon deposits was also studied in a Dupont 990 Differential Scanning Calorime- ter. The coke morphology was investigated by transmis- sion electron microscopy (TEM) in a Phillips TEM at the University of Delaware. The electron microscope speci- mens were prepared from heavily coked samples slurried in ultrasonically stirred propanol and deposited on gold grids. After evaporating the propanol, the powder was well dispersed over the grid.The nature of the carbon deposits was further investi- gated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. The XPS studies were conducted using a Kratos Xsami instrument equipped with a dual-anode X-ray source and a reactor for in situ treatments. Binding energy measurements were


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the effectiveness of different sulfur-based oxidants (such as H2S, S2, and SO2) with conventional oxidants in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) to propylene, discussing their impact on propylene yield, the specific challenges associated with each oxidant (including byproduct formation), and the key areas for future research to improve catalyst design and optimize the overall process.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 