<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "However, conversion of lower alkanes to valuable chemicals often involves indirect or multi-step reaction routes. Developing direct routes to obtain key organic chemicals from lower alkanes would benefit industry."
          [2] "Lower alkanes are relatively inert, and they exhibit little or no reactivity at conditions typical for activating functional group reactions in organic compounds because they lack low-lying vacant orbitals or lone pair electrons."
          [3] "Thus, the main challenge of using lower alkanes to produce value-added chemicals is the development of economic and environment friendly processes for partial oxidation or selective functionalization of lower alkanes to the desired target compounds."
          [4] "Alkenes are more reactive than alkanes because they have π-electrons. Lower alkenes, especially ethene and propene, are key intermediates or monomers of industrial polymers."
          [5] "Hence, there is a strong motive to develop technologies for direct conversion of lower alkanes to the corresponding lower alkenes."
          [6] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [7] "Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is an energy intensive reaction; however, oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation."
          [8] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
          [9] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [10] "Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation."
          [11] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
          [12] "In this report, we provide an overview on CH activation and reaction routes to alkane dehydrogenation."
          [13] "We seek to gain insights about components of the active sites of CH activation to provide a platform for rational design of new efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
          [14] "We focus on propane dehydrogenation because of the need for alternative and/or complementary technology for propene production to supplement existing technologies."
          [15] "We survey non-oxidative and oxidative dehydrogenation approaches, and examine reaction routes that are intermediate between these two main approaches."
          [16] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [17] "Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is an energy intensive reaction; however, oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation."
          [18] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
          [19] "Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation."
          [20] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
          [21] "Despite more than two decades of investigations on ODH of light alkanes, there is not yet an ODH catalyst that gives a propene yield sufficient to be attractive to industry."
          [22] "The temperature required at one atmosphere pressure to obtain the same conversion decreases with alkane chain length and branching ( Fig. 2 ) [8] ."
          [23] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [24] "Thus, ODH of alkanes takes place at lower temperature compared to the corresponding non-ODH. This lower temperature requirement of ODH compared to non-ODH and cracking is encouraging and provides motivation for continued efforts to develop ODH into an industrial technology."
          [25] "Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation."
          [26] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The primary challenges in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production include the development of economic and environmentally friendly processes for partial oxidation or selective functionalization of lower alkanes to the desired target compounds. Lower alkanes are relatively inert, lacking low-lying vacant orbitals or lone pair electrons, which makes their conversion to valuable chemicals often involve indirect or multi-step reaction routes. Alkenes, especially ethene and propene, are more reactive than alkanes due to their π-electrons and are key intermediates or monomers of industrial polymers. There is a strong motive to develop technologies for direct conversion of lower alkanes to the corresponding lower alkenes. However, the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, while alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is an energy-intensive reaction, but oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Despite extensive research over two decades, there are still gaps between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation. Researchers are focusing on gaining insights into CH activation and reaction routes to alkane dehydrogenation, aiming to rationally design new efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes. Propane dehydrogenation is a particular focus due to the need for alternative technologies for propene production. They are surveying non-oxidative and oxidative dehydrogenation approaches and examining intermediate reaction routes between these two main approaches. The temperature required at one atmosphere pressure to obtain the same conversion decreases with alkane chain length and branching. ODH of alkanes takes place at lower temperatures compared to the corresponding non-ODH, which is encouraging and provides motivation for continued efforts to develop ODH into an industrial technology. Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation. Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design. Despite over two decades of research, there is still a gap between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation, and no ODH catalyst has yet been developed that gives a propene yield sufficient to be attractive to industry.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          丙烷脱氢（PDH）用于工业丙烯生产的主要挑战包括开发经济和环保的工艺，用于将较低烷烃部分氧化或选择性功能化为所需的靶化合物。较低的烷烃相对惰性，缺乏低能级的空轨道或孤对电子，这使得它们转化为有价值的化学品通常涉及间接或多步反应路线。烯烃，特别是乙烯和丙烯，比烷烃更具反应性，由于它们的π电子，是工业聚合物的关键中间体或单体。有强烈的动机开发技术，用于将较低的烷烃直接转化为相应的较低烯烃。然而，随着温度的升高，烷烃的平衡转化率增加，而由于脱氢环化/芳构化、热裂解和焦炭形成的倾向增加，随着温度和链长的增加，烯烃的选择性降低。直接脱氢较低的烷烃是一个能量密集型反应，但氧化脱氢（ODH）有潜力降低实现脱氢所需的能量。商业ODH技术取决于创新的催化剂和工艺设计，包括端热脱氢步骤与放热氢燃烧的适当协同作用，以及选择性CH和氢燃烧催化剂的设计。尽管进行了超过二十年的广泛研究，实验室成果与工业实施之间仍然存在差距。研究人员正专注于深入了解CH活化和烷烃脱氢的反应途径，旨在合理设计新的高效催化剂，用于较低烷烃的脱氢。丙烷脱氢是特别关注的焦点，因为需要替代技术来生产丙烯。他们正在调查非氧化和氧化脱氢方法，并检查这两种主要方法之间的中间反应途径。在1个大气压下，获得相同转化率所需的温度随着烷烃链长和分支的减少而降低。与相应的非ODH相比，烷烃的ODH在较低的温度下进行，这令人鼓舞，并为继续努力将ODH发展成为工业技术提供了动力。尽管有大量的报告和许多涵盖该主题不同方面的评论，以及对ODH进行了20多年的调查，但实验室成果与工业实施之间仍然存在差距。尽管ODH因其能量强化优势而具有吸引力，但商业ODH技术取决于创新的催化剂和工艺设计，即内热脱氢步骤与外热氢燃烧之间的适当协同作用，以及选择性CH和氢燃烧催化剂的设计。尽管进行了20多年的调查，实验室成果与工业实施之间仍然存在差距，目前还没有开发出能够产生足以吸引工业界关注的丙烯产量的ODH催化剂。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
