<quotes>

[1] "However, conversion of lower alkanes to valuable chemicals often involves indirect or multi-step reaction routes. Developing direct routes to obtain key organic chemicals from lower alkanes would benefit industry."
[2] "The temperature required at one atmosphere pressure to obtain the same conversion decreases with alkane chain length and branching ( Fig. 2 ) [8] ."
[3] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
[4] "Thus, ODH of alkanes takes place at lower temperature compared to the corresponding non-ODH. This lower temperature requirement of ODH compared to non-ODH and cracking is encouraging and provides motivation for continued efforts to develop ODH into an industrial technology."
[5] "Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation."
[6] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary challenges in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production include the need for catalysts with high-temperature stability, propylene selectivity, and resistance to side reactions, while considering thermodynamic limitations. Developing direct routes to obtain key organic chemicals from lower alkanes would benefit industry. The temperature required at one atmosphere pressure to obtain the same conversion decreases with alkane chain length and branching. However, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. ODH of alkanes takes place at lower temperatures compared to the corresponding non-ODH, which is encouraging and provides motivation for continued efforts to develop ODH into an industrial technology. Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation. Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)用于工业丙烯生产的主要挑战包括需要具有高温稳定性、丙烯选择性和抵抗副反应的催化剂，同时考虑到热力学限制。开发从低级烷烃直接获得关键有机化学品的途径将有利于工业。在1个大气压下，获得相同转化率所需的温度随着烷烃链长和分支的减少而降低。然而，由于脱氢环化/芳构化、热裂解和焦炭形成的倾向增加，随着温度和链长的增加，烯烃选择性降低。与相应的非ODH相比，烷烃的ODH在较低的温度下进行，这令人鼓舞，并为继续努力将ODH发展成为工业技术提供了动力。尽管有大量的报告和许多涵盖该主题不同方面的评论，以及对ODH进行了20多年的调查，但实验室成果与工业实施之间仍然存在差距。尽管ODH因其能量强化优势而具有吸引力，但商业ODH技术取决于创新的催化剂和工艺设计，即内热脱氢步骤与外热氢燃烧之间的适当协同作用，以及选择性CH和氢燃烧催化剂的设计。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
