<quotes>

[1] "However, conversion of lower alkanes to valuable chemicals often involves indirect or multi-step reaction routes. Developing direct routes to obtain key organic chemicals from lower alkanes would benefit industry."
[2] "Lower alkanes are relatively inert, and they exhibit little or no reactivity at conditions typical for activating functional group reactions in organic compounds because they lack low-lying vacant orbitals or lone pair electrons."
[3] "Thus, the main challenge of using lower alkanes to produce value-added chemicals is the development of economic and environment friendly processes for partial oxidation or selective functionalization of lower alkanes to the desired target compounds."
[4] "Alkenes are more reactive than alkanes because they have π-electrons. Lower alkenes, especially ethene and propene, are key intermediates or monomers of industrial polymers."
[5] "Hence, there is a strong motive to develop technologies for direct conversion of lower alkanes to the corresponding lower alkenes."
[6] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
[7] "Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is an energy intensive reaction; however, oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation."
[8] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary challenges in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production include the development of economic and environmentally friendly processes for partial oxidation or selective functionalization of lower alkanes to the desired target compounds. Lower alkanes are relatively inert, lacking low-lying vacant orbitals or lone pair electrons, which makes their conversion to valuable chemicals often involve indirect or multi-step reaction routes. Alkenes, especially ethene and propene, are more reactive than alkanes due to their π-electrons and are key intermediates or monomers of industrial polymers. There is a strong motive to develop technologies for direct conversion of lower alkanes to the corresponding lower alkenes. However, the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, while alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is an energy-intensive reaction, but oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation. Commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, including proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢（PDH）用于工业丙烯生产的主要挑战包括开发经济和环保的工艺，用于将较低烷烃部分氧化或选择性功能化为所需的靶化合物。较低的烷烃相对惰性，缺乏低能级的空轨道或孤对电子，这使得它们转化为有价值的化学品通常涉及间接或多步反应路线。烯烃，特别是乙烯和丙烯，比烷烃更具反应性，由于它们的π电子，是工业聚合物的关键中间体或单体。有强烈的动机开发技术，用于将较低的烷烃直接转化为相应的较低烯烃。然而，随着温度的升高，烷烃的平衡转化率增加，而由于脱氢环化/芳构化、热裂解和焦炭形成的倾向增加，随着温度和链长的增加，烯烃的选择性降低。直接脱氢较低的烷烃是一个能量密集型反应，但氧化脱氢（ODH）有潜力降低实现脱氢所需的能量。商业ODH技术取决于创新的催化剂和工艺设计，包括端热脱氢步骤与放热氢燃烧的适当协同作用，以及选择性CH和氢燃烧催化剂的设计。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
