<quotes>

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
[2] "Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is an energy intensive reaction; however, oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation."
[3] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
[4] "Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation."
[5] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
[6] "Despite more than two decades of investigations on ODH of light alkanes, there is not yet an ODH catalyst that gives a propene yield sufficient to be attractive to industry."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary challenges in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production include the thermodynamic limitations that lead to a decrease in alkene selectivity with increasing temperature and chain length due to dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking, and coke formation. Researchers are addressing these challenges by exploring oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) as an alternative to direct dehydrogenation, which has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation. However, commercial ODH technologies require innovative catalyst and process design to achieve proper synergy between the endothermic dehydrogenation step and the exothermic hydrogen combustion, as well as the design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Despite over two decades of research, there is still a gap between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation, and no ODH catalyst has yet been developed that gives a propene yield sufficient to be attractive to industry.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在工业丙烯生产中，丙烷脱氢(PDH)的主要挑战包括热力学限制，这会导致随着温度和链长的增加，由于脱氢环化/芳构化、热裂解和焦炭形成，烯烃选择性降低。研究人员正在通过探索氧化脱氢(ODH)作为直接脱氢的替代方案来应对这些挑战，ODH有潜力降低实现脱氢所需的能量需求。然而，商业ODH技术需要创新的催化剂和工艺设计，以实现脱氢步骤的吸热与氢燃烧的放热之间的适当协同，以及选择性CH和氢燃烧催化剂的设计。尽管进行了超过二十年的研究，实验室成果与工业实施之间仍然存在差距，目前还没有开发出能够产生足以吸引工业界关注的丙烯产量的ODH催化剂。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
