element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
View PDF
Download full issue
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews
Volume 119
, March 2020, 109600
Coke formation and deactivation during catalytic reforming of biomass and waste pyrolysis products: A review
Author links open overlay panel
Aitor Ochoa a
,
Javier Bilbao a
,
Ana G. Gayubo a
,
Pedro Castaño a b
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2019.109600
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
Sustained hydrogen production requires understanding of the catalyst deactivation.
•
Different catalyst designs for coping with deactivation are compared.
•
Mechanisms of catalyst deactivation are reviewed.
•
The intensive carbon formation obliges to find routes for its valorization.
•
Coke formation has a positive side, aiming to produce interesting carbon materials.
Abstract
Undoubtedly, hydrogen (H2) is a clean feedstock and energy carrier whose sustainable production should be anticipated. The pyrolysis of biomass or waste plastics and the subsequent reforming over base (transition) or noble metals supported catalysts allows reaching elevated H2 yields. However, the catalyst used in the reforming step undergoes a rapid and severe deactivation by means of a series of physicochemical phenomena, including metal sintering, metallic phase oxidation, thermal degradation of the support and, more notoriously, coke deposition. This review deals with the currently existing alternatives at the catalyst and reactor level to cope with catalyst deactivation and increase process stability, and then delves with the fundamental phenomena occurring during this catalyst deactivation. An emphasis is placed on coke deposition and its influence on deactivation, which depends on its location, chemical nature, morphology, precursors or formation mechanism, among others. We also discuss the challenges for increasing the value of the carbon materials formed and therefore, enhance process viability.
Previous article
Next article
Keywords
ReformingSustainable refineryCatalyst deactivationCarbonCharacterization
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
© 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.