<quotes>
[1] "Carbon materials containing different proportions of micro- and mesoporosity were studied. The combination of different NMR methods was used to explore the pore structure and the interaction of the adsorbate with the pore walls."
[2] "In microporous Takeda 4A, the sorbate relaxation rates were larger and the diffusivities smaller than in Takeda 5A. This evi- dences that sorbate molecule in Takeda 4A experience stronger restrictions in both their re-orientational and translational motions than in Takeda 5A, as a consequence of the smaller pore size of Takeda 4A."
[3] "This is attributed to the presence of mesopores which tend to con- fine the dominating part of the liquid. Besides, diffusion experi- ments showed the existence of the quite broad distribution of the diffusivities. This is attributed to heterogeneities of the mate- rial on length scales notably exceeding the characteristic molecular displacements (in the range of micrometers)."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The document discusses the study of carbon materials with different proportions of micro- and mesoporosity. These materials were explored using a combination of NMR techniques to understand their pore structure and the interaction of adsorbates with these pore walls. 

2. In Takeda 4A, which has a smaller pore size compared to Takeda 5A, the relaxation rates of sorbate molecules were higher and their diffusivities lower. This suggests that the molecules in Takeda 4A experience stronger restrictions in their rotational and translational movements due to the smaller pore size.

3. The presence of mesopores in the materials tends to confine the major portion of the liquid. Moreover, the diffusion experiments revealed a broad distribution of diffusivities, which is attributed to the heterogeneities in the material on scales much larger than the typical molecular displacements, ranging from micrometers.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 文档讨论了对具有不同微孔和介孔比例的碳材料的研究。这些材料使用不同的NMR技术进行探索，以了解其孔结构和吸附剂与孔壁的相互作用。

2. 在Takeda 4A中，其孔径比Takeda 5A更小，吸附剂分子的弛豫率更高，扩散性更低。这表明Takeda 4A中的分子在更小的孔径下受到更强的旋转和平移运动限制。

3. 材料中的介孔倾向于限制大部分液体。此外，扩散实验揭示了扩散性的广泛分布，这归因于材料在远大于典型分子位移尺度（范围为微米）上的不均匀性。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
