Chem. Rev. 1988, 88, 55-80 
55 
Mechanistic Aspects of Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C4 Hydrocarbons 
over Phosphorus Vanadium Oxide 
GABRIELE CENT1 and FERRUCCIO TRIFIRb 
Department of Industrial Chemistry and Materials, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy 
' 
JERRY R. EBNER' and VICTORIA M. FRANCHETTI 
Monsanfo Chemical Company, St. Louis, Missouri 63 
167 
Received April 18, 1987 (Revised Manuscript Received August 14, 1987) 
Conten 
is 
I. Introduction 
55 
A. Background 
55 
B. Scope of the Review 
55 
11. Structure of the Catalyst 
57 
A. Crystalline PVO Phases 
57 
B. Active Phase in n8utane Selective 
58 
111. Detection of Intermediates in the Oxidation of 
60 
Converslon 
n 
-Butane under Steady-State and Transient 
Conditions 
A. Steady-State Experiments 
60 
B. Time-Resolved Analysis 
A. n8utane 
B. Butenes and Butadiene 
V. Surface Modifications by Interaction of C4 
Hydrocarbons with the Catalyst Surface 
VI. Relationship between Redox Properties and 
Catalytic Behavior 
IV. Kinetics of C4 Hydrocarbon Oxidation 
V I I .  Mechanism of n-Butane Activation 
VIII. Role of Adsorbed and Lattice Oxygen Species 
IX. Nature and Mobility of Adsorbed Species 
XI. References 
X. Final Remarks 
62 
62 
62 
64 
65 
67 
69 
71 
76 
77 
78 
I. Introduction 
A. Background 
Maleic anhydride (2,5-furandione) 
and its derivatives 
(malic and fumaric acids) are produced with a world- 
wide capacity of about 1300 million pounds per year. 
The demand for this industrially important chemical, 
used principally in the manufacture of unsaturated 
polyester resins, agricultural chemicals, food additives, 
lubricating oil additives, and  pharmaceutical^,'-^ is ex- 
pected to grow over the next 5 years, due in part to new 
uses for this highly functionalized molecule. Among the 
more significant potential new uses is its conversion to 
butanediol via hydrogenation of maleic acid. This 
chemistry may become economically more favorable 
than the present acetylene-based chemistry by the 
1990~.~+ 
Currently, worldwide production of maleic anhydride 
is based on the major feedstocks benzene, n-butane, and 
butenes.'-I2 Most of the capacity is produced via fix- 
ed-bed oxidation of benzene, though benzene is being 
displaced by butane as a feedstock (all production in 
the U.S. is butane based), because butane is a lower cost 
and environmentally more desirable raw material and 
because butane oxidation produces a cleaner product 
stream, forming mainly maleic anhydride and carbon 
oxides. However, productivity from n-butane is lower 
due to lower selectivities to maleic anhydride at higher 
conversions and the somewhat lower feed concentra- 
tions (less than 2 molar %) used to avoid flammability 
of process streams. 
A survey of the patent literature indicates molar se- 
lectivities for fixed-bed production of maleic anhydride 
from butane of around 67-75% under typical 
"industrial" conditions (less than 2 molar % butane, 
conversion from 70 to 85% between 400 and 450 O C ,  
and space velocities of around 1100-2600 h-').I3-l8 In 
the past few years, development of fluid bed butane- 
based systems has been r e p ~ r t e d . l ~ * ~ ~  
These systems 
offer the advantage of operation at higher butane con- 
centrations (up to 4%) and thus lower original capital 
costs. However, loss in selectivity at the higher butane 
loadings and the inherent problems with attrition of 
phosphorus vanadium oxide (PVO) materials need to 
be overcome before this process will become economi- 
cally preferred. The recently developed DuPont 
transport bed technology may be the most economically 
favorable route for maleic production in the 1990s. This 
process operates at lower conversions per pass and with 
higher selectivities than normally encountered in fixed 
or fluid bed systems, and uses a unique attrition re- 
sistance system.21s22 
All catalysts used industrially for the production of 
maleic anhydride from butane are PVO-based sys- 
t e m ~ . ~ ~ , ~ ~ - ~ ~  
The preparation of vanadium phosphorus 
oxides was the subject of a recent review by H ~ d n e t t , ~ ~  
and older data on these catalysts have been reviewed 
by Varma and Saraf12 
and by H ~ c k n a l l . ~ ~  
The vana- 
dium phosphorus 
oxide system is characterized by facile 
formation and interconversion of a number of crystal- 
line V(IV) and V(V) phases, and this has led to some 
confusion in the literature as to the nature of the active 
phase.23 In the PVO system, there are many synthesis 
variables that affect the solid-state chemistry leading 
to the active catalyst, and thus the performance char- 
0009-2665/88/0788-0055$06.50/0 
0 1988 American Chemical Society 
56 Chemical Reviews, 1988. VoI. 88. No. 1 
Centi et ai. 
Gabriele Centi was born in Boizano. Italy. and graduated from the 
University of Bologna (Italy) in 1979. After completing his post- 
doctoral work at the Experimental Station for Fuels (Italy), he 
moved to the University 
of Bologna, where he is presently a Pro- 
fessw of Chemical Engineering. His main research interests are 
in the catalytic. synthetic, and engineering aspects of selective 
oxidation reactions, in particular on the relationship 
between sol- 
'&state and surface aspects and mechanistic aspects of catalysis 
on mixed and supported oxides. 
Ferruccio Trlfir6 is Full Professor in Industrial Chemistry at the 
University 
of Bologna (Italy) 
and took his degree in chemical en- 
gineering 
from the Poliecnico Milano (Italy) in 1963, wcfking Umre 
until 1974. H
e
 was a postdoctoral feiiow at the HievrOsky Institute 
(Czechoslovak$) and at the University of Reading (United Kingdom) 
and Visiting Professor at the University 
of Erbngen (Germany). He 
is presently President of the Catalysis Group of the Italian Chem- 
istry Society and Director of the Deparhnent 
of Industrial 
Chemistry 
and Materials of the University of Bologna. His main interests 
are 
in heterogeneous 
chemistry. solid-state and surface characteriza- 
tion, catalytic tests, and kinetic 
and mechanistic 
aspects. H
e
 holds 
several patents in heterogeneous oxidation processes. His inter- 
ests also include photooxidation reactions and the relationship 
between homogeneous and heterogeneous mechanisms 
acteristics and mechanism of catalysis. For example, 
the use of an organic solvent during preparation as 
opposed to an aqueous system results in differing de- 
grees of crystallinityz6 
and defect structure of the re- 
sulting active phase. The final P V  
ratio of the active 
phase may he varied and has been the subject of nu- 
merous  publication^?'^^ 
However, recent advances in understanding the sol- 
id-state chemistry of PVO have allowed studies of this 
reaction with well-characterized, 
reproducible compo- 
sitions. This has resulted in better analysis of the role 
of oxidation states, the P V  
ratio, and defect structure 
on the reaction mechanism. 
6. Scope of the Review 
The n-butane to maleic anhydride reaction is a fas- 
cinating and complex system. This catalytic system 
performs a 14-electron oxidation involving the ab- 
Jerry Ebner is a Monsanto Science Fellow, Catalyst Technology. 
Born in LaCmsse. WI. he obtained 
his P h D  
in inorganic 
chemistry 
at P
I
.
&
 Unlversity in 1975 under Professor R. A. Wanon. He has 
conducted research in the field of heterogeneous catalysis since 
he joined Monsanto Chemical Co. in 1975. Since 1982 he has 
served as group leader of heterogeneous 
catalysis in the selective 
Oxidation and ammoxidation areas, as well as group leader of the 
corporate catalysis research group. In 1986 he was appointed 
a Monsanto Science Fellow. His research interests include new 
catalyst synthesis and characterization. solid-state chemistry. and 
studies of chemical surface reactions 
through the development and 
application of new catalyst characterization methods. 
4 
/ 
\ 
Victoria Franchetti presently Is Director of Research. Plastic 
Techno4ogy. Monsanto 
Chemical Co. 
From 1984 to 1987 she was 
Manager. Maleic Catalyst Techrology, Whin h s  
SpedaHy Chemical 
Division. She received her Ph.D. from Boston University in 1975 
and joined Monsanto Chemical Co. in 1977 after completing a 
2-year postdoctoral appointment at Purdue University. Her re- 
search and management experience at Mcnsanto has included Um 
areas of solid characterization. process analytical development, 
catalysis, and new plastics technology. 
straction of 8 hydrogen atoms and insertion of 3 oxygen 
atoms (eq 1). Compared to 
other industrially practiced 
(1) 
hydrocarbon selective oxidation reactions,"'"' 
it is the 
most complex (Table I). It is the only example of an 
industrially practiced selective oxidation reaction in- 
volving alkane activation. Knowledge gained through 
study and understanding of this system may contribute 
to advances in alkane activation in general. 
The subject of this review is a critical analysis of data 
published in recent years conceming the mechanism of 
the oxidation of n-butane with vanadium phosphorus 
oxide catalysts. We will present an overall general 
picture of this mechanism and clarify issues related to 
the nature of the active site involved, including the 
- 
oao 
r 4 H 2 0  
C4H,. + ).SO2 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C, Hydrocarbons 
TABLE 
1. Number of Electrons and Oxygen Molecules 
Involved in the Principal Reactions of Industrial Interest 
in Selective Oxidation 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 57 
aEClRONS 
MOLES 
INVOLVED 
O X Y a  
REACTON 
M - 
M 
+ H
,
O
 
2 
0.5 
0 
' 0  
importance of P:V ratio, oxidation state, structural 
characteristics 
of the vanadium phosphorus oxide sys- 
tem, and the detection and formation of intermediates. 
One characteristic of the n-butane reaction is the 
absence of "observed" intermediates during steady-state 
oxidation, as 
compared to the oxidation of 1-butene, for 
e ~ a m p l e . ~ ~ @ ? ~ ~  
Kinetic studies have been of little value 
in determining reaction sequences because the rate- 
determining step70 is alkane activation. In order to 
detect intermediates, conditions preventing the further 
oxidation of these intermediates must be chosen. We 
will analyze how these intermediates are formed and 
discuss recent insight generated from a new technique, 
temporal analysis of products (TAP).71v72 
The reaction 
sequences may be determined by using controlled con- 
ditions and TAP. 
Another characteristic of the selective oxidation of 
butane involves the series of oxidation steps utilizing 
different kinds and reactivities of oxygen. We will re- 
view the experimental work relevant to determination 
of the forms of selective and nonselective oxygen in the 
reaction, addressing the question of whether the Mars 
and van Krevelen redox mechanism common to olefin 
oxidation61a7 applies equally well to this saturated 
system. 
Heterogeneous catalysis is a science at the interface 
of different areas of chemistry, physical chemistry, and 
engineering. Each new development stems from ap- 
plications of concepts from these different areas. A 
heterogeneous catalytic system should be, in fact, cor- 
rectly regarded as 
a three-phase system: (i) a gas phase, 
(ii) a solid phase, and (iii) a two-dimensional surface 
region at the gas-solid interface composed of the surface 
solid phases and interacting adsorbed  molecule^.^^ The 
structure and properties of this surface region may be 
modified either by changing the composition of the gas 
phase or by altering the properties of the solid. A 
further objective of this review is, therefore, to illustrate 
how only a global interdisciplinary approach allows 
increased understanding of complex reaction systems. 
11, Structure of the Catalyst 
A. Crystalllne PVO Phases 
The vanadium phosphorus oxide system is charac- 
terized by the facile formation of a number of crystalline 
phases, both of vanadium(1V) 
and of vanadium(V)X 
the more interesting P:V atomic ratio near 1.0, the 
different crystalline (a, 
p),50,74-82 
polymorphic (aI, 
aII, 
y, 6),31-333*82 
or hydrated phases of V0P0431-33*50~74-87 
have been extensively studied. In general, the vanadyl 
orthophosphate crystal structure consists of V06 
and 
PO4 
groups arranged in layers [VOP04],, held together 
by long V-0 bonds or by hydrogen bonds. The layered 
structure leads to a rich intercalation chemistry, with 
formation of layered solids consisting of alternating 
inorganic and organic layers@ 
or the formation of sol- 
vated inorganic intercalation  compound^.^^^^ 
In dihydrated VOP04 
the layer lattice is built up of 
neutral VOP04 layers and interlayer water mole- 
c u l e ~ ? ~ - ~ ~  
The vanadium atom lies on a fourfold axis 
and is surrounded by six oxygen atoms to give a dis- 
torted octahedron. The four equatorial oxygens are 
provided by four different phosphate tetrahedra. One 
of the axial vanadium-oxygen bond distances is very 
short, corresponding to a vanadium-oxygen double 
bond (V=O). The structure of CU-VOPO~ 
is composed 
of chains of highly distorted VO, octahedra sharing four 
oxygen atoms 
with four different PO4 
groups.7p82 
These 
groups are arranged to form layers. A distortion of the 
V06 octahedra occurs along the c axis, generating a 
short V-0 bond (V=O) and a very long V-0 bond 
(V-0). Thus the oxyvanadium units can be approxi- 
mated as 
V05 
pyramids. The p-VOP04 
phase possesses 
V05 
pyramids and PO4 
tetrahedra in its crystal struc- 
ture, analogous to a-VOP04. However, the primitive 
unit cell of p-VOP04 
contains twice the number of such 
structural groups, resulting in a network structure. The 
y- 
and &polymorphic forms of VOP04 are sug- 
gested31-33g73 
to contain a different framework, 
in which 
pairs of edge-sharing octahedra with trans vanadyl ox- 
ygens are alternately unshared or shared with phos- 
phate tetrahedra. Such pairs do not exist in the a- 
and 
p-VOP04 forms. During thermal treatment at high 
temperature the consecutive transitions 
A 
A 
6-VOP04 - 
y-VOPO, - 
p-VOP04 
(2) 
have been observed.33 
Vanadium(1V) hydrogen phosphate?l-" which is the 
most widely used precursor of the active phase for n- 
butane o x i d a t i ~ n , ~ ' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
possesses a structure made 
up of atom arrangements in the ac plane which are very 
similar to that proposed for y-VOPO,. It may be ob- 
tained from the dihydrated V(V) phosphate by reduc- 
tion with organic alcoholsg1 
or from the reduction of 
V205 
followed by 0-H3P04 
addition.58a0~95*96 
Both the 
hemihydrate and tetrahydrate of vanadium hydrogen 
phosphate are known?' and their structures are closely 
related, showing a layered structure and pairs of face- 
sharing vanadium(1V) octahedra. Hydrogen phosphate 
(OH) 
groups are directed into the interlayer space. The 
coordination geometry around both vanadium and 
phosphorus is similar in the two structures. The pos- 
sible formation of the trihydrate of VOHP04 
has also 
been reported.36 The VOHP04.0.5H20 framework is 
reminiscent of the structures of analogous layered 
compounds of zirconium hydrogen phosphates and 
hydrated Nb phosphates. The intercalation compounds 
of vanadium hydrogen phosphate with organic mole- 
cules or inorganic cations and anions such as Vn+ or 
HP042-78~79~95J02J03 
are similar to those reported in the 
58 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 
Centi et al. 
, 
'
\
.
I
 
Figure 1. Idealized vanadyl pyrophosphate structure:26 (a) 
only 
vanadyl groups; (b) connectivity of octahedra and tetrahedra 
within a layer containing the vanadyl dimer groups. 
literature for the zirconium and niobium  system^.^^-^^^ 
This intercalation chemistry is of particular importance 
in the description of the structural and catalytically 
related chemistry of VOHP04.0.5H20 
and of its derived 
phases. Two main effects observed in the preparation 
of VOHPO4.0.5Hz0 
may be, in fact, strictly connected 
to intercalation properties. First, nonstoichiometry is 
easily accommodated as evidenced by the preparation 
of compounds with 0.9-1.2 P:V atomic ratio without any 
apparent modification of structural and morphological 
proper tie^.^^ Second, the preparation conditions have 
a pronounced effect on the microstructure,22~26~31~g5~1M-107 
i.e., on the morphology, solid-state reactivity, and the 
presence of disorder in the stacking fold of crystalline 
planes of its layered structure. In fact, reduction of the 
starting V" compound may be realizedg6 
by using, for 
example, aqueous HC1 or isobutyl alcohol. In both 
cases, almost pure vanadyl hydrogen phosphate is ob- 
tained, but with different microstructures.96~10~107 
The 
layers of vanadyl hydrogen phosphate ((010) 
planes) are 
interconnected in a tridimensional structure by weak 
H bonding of phosphates and of water molecules. The 
organic alcohol competes with this effect, reducing the 
bonding between the planes and allowing the formation 
of crystals in which these (010) planes are predomi- 
nantly exposed (platelike morphology) 
.22*41*91193p96 
This 
effect, in addition to the increase in surface area,60 
modifies the surface properties due to a change in the 
relative ratio of crystalline planes at the surface. The 
alcohol also can remain partially intercalated between 
layers.96 This effect induces some local modification 
of the vanadyl hydrogen phosphate structure, which can 
strongly modify its solid-state reacti~ity.'~~-'~~ 
The transformation of V(1V) and V(V) phases into 
vanadyl pyrophosphate is an important step in forming 
active catalysts. By thermal treatment at ca. 400 "C, 
the VOHP04.0.5H20 
dehydrates to (VO)2P207. 
Alter- 
natively, the vanadyl pyrophosphate may be obtained 
by reduction from VOP04 
or by thermal treatment of 
different crystalline or amorphous P-V-0-X 
phases 
(where X indicates a generic thermally decomposable 
anion or cation such as C204'- or NH4+).28,36,52,57,58 
The 
vanadyl pyrophosphate is built of chains of V polyhedra 
linked by pyrophosphate  group^.^^^^'^ The V atoms are 
linked through the oxygen atoms of the vanadyl in 
V-0-V chains in the c direction, and the V octahedra 
are linked in pairs through a common edge, forming 
double chains in this direction. The vanadyl groups in 
the paired vanadium octahedra are oriented trans to 
one another, as schematically represented in Figure 1. 
The unit cell of (V0)2P207 
is orthorhombic108,10g 
and is 
topologically similar (in its bc plane) to that of VOH- 
PO4.0.5H20 
(in the ab  lane).^^^^^ The change from 
face-shared to edge-shared vanadium octahedra in 
converting the hemihydrate to the pyrophosphate re- 
sults in a small expansion of one axis, but the other 
in-plane dimension shows little change according to the 
pseudomorphic relations between the two crystalline 
 structure^.^^ This indicates a topotactic mechanism of 
transformation, and this result has been confirmed with 
scanning electron microscopy.22~31~g1~g3~g6 
The layer 
spacing decreases from 5.69 A in the hemihydrate to 
3.86 8, 
in the pyrophosphate. This is consistent with 
removing the water molecules shared by the vanadium 
pairs and filling the resulting vanadium coordination 
site with the oxygen atoms of vanadyl groups from the 
layer above. This transformation requires only very 
small displacements of the atoms. Importantly, since 
the conversion of the hemihydrate to pyrophosphate 
can take place without breaking any V-0-P bonds, the 
structural order/disorder and morphology of the pre- 
cursor phase are maintained during the transformation 
to vanadyl pyrophosphate. This means that it is pos- 
sible to control some of the structural/morphological 
characteristics of vanadyl pyrophosphate by control of 
the specific nature of the VOHP04.0.5H20 
precursor 
p h a ~ e . ~ J ~ ~  
Furthermore, the terminal vanadyl oxygen 
atoms in the face-shared octahedra pairs of vanadyl 
hydrogen phosphate have a syn arrangement, while in 
vanadyl pyrophosphate they are in anti positions. 
These arrangements in the layer stacking direction re- 
sult in the initial formation of (VO)2P207 
crystallites 
with many d
e
f
e
~
t
s
.
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
The possible presence 
of disorder in the crystalline structure of vanadyl py- 
rophosphate was confirmed by magnetic susceptibility 
measurements,l1° and its role in the mechanism of the 
reaction was suggested.26i111 
Alternatively, Bordes and 
C o ~ r t i n e ~ l - ~ ~ * ~ ~  
discuss these effects in terms of different 
crystalline phases (p- and y-(VO)2P207), 
in which the 
former possesses a network structure versus a layered 
structure for the y 
phase. X-ray diffraction patterns, 
however, are very similar in these two phases. Ac- 
cording to these authors, p-(VO)2P207 
forms with a 
crystallographic shear mechanism from p-VOP04, 
whereas y-(VO)2P207 
forms by dehydration of vanadyl 
hydrogen phosphate or reduction from y-VOP04. 
In addition to these 1:l phosphorus vanadium com- 
pounds, some authors have found the formation of other 
crystalline phases in catalysts with P:V ratio in the 
0.8-2.0 range. In particular, the formation of VO(H2- 
P04)2 
in the precursor phase34336t112 
and V(P03)3 
and 
VO(P03)2 
or other p o l y p h o ~ p h a t e s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ' ~  
in the ac- 
tivated catalysts was evidenced. These phases, however, 
were generally considered to be inactive in n-butane 
oxidation.24 Finally, poorly crystalline or amorphous 
PVO phases were sometimes observed in the prepara- 
tion of these vanadium phosphorus oxide sys- 
temS.47,52,54,58,114-119 
B. Active Phase in n-Butane Selective 
Conversion 
Because the vanadium phosphorus oxide system is 
characterized by the facile formation of a number of 
crystalline phases, the structure of the active phase 
must be discussed in terms of factors such as 
oxidation 
state, P:V ratio, and crystal phase transformations un- 
der reactant atmosphere. The various crystal phases 
can interconvert as a function of the reducing or oxi- 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C
,
 Hydrocarbons 
dizing properties of the reactants, the time on stream, 
and the reaction temperature.33~60~58~59~104~106~107~1zo~121 
For 
this reason, some authors adopted a systematic ap- 
proach to preparation of these catalysts using statistical 
design and evaluation of experimental r e s ~ l t s . ~ ~ J ~ ~  
In 
this section we examine the important features related 
to formation of the active phase and the various con- 
clusions that have emerged in the literature concerning 
the nature of the active phase. 
The orthophosphate (VOPO$ phases are transformed 
to (VO)2P207 
by reaction with the hydrocarbon mixture. 
In this reduction process single V06 octahedra form 
pairs by loss of oxide anions. However, the different 
VOP04 
phases previously discussed possess different 
reducibility to vanadyl pyrophosphate, depending on 
the structure or m o r p h ~ l o g y . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
The constitutive 
layers of the y-VOP04 
framework 
have a tenden@ to 
shift cooperatively along the Burger vector in order to 
progressively form the columns of edge-share octahedra 
and pyrophosphate groups of (VO)2P207. 
This trans- 
formation is easier than the movement along the crys- 
tallographic shear planes proposed to account for the 
reduction of p-V0P0431v33973 
Also a-VOP04 
r e d u c e ~ ~ ~ J ~  
under less severe conditions compared to those needed 
to reduce p-VOP04. However, the a-VOP04 
can also 
transform to p-VOP04 
at high temperatures, particu- 
larly in the hot-spot zones of fixed-bed reactors. The 
presence of p-VOP04 
in used or inactive catalysts for 
butane oxidation accounts for a loss of catalytic per- 
formance, and its greater stability compared with that 
of the other forms of VOP04 
limits its further trans- 
f o r m a t i ~ n . ~ ~ ! ~ ~  
This complex solid-state chemistry has led to some 
confusion and contradictions in the literature concern- 
ing the nature of the active phase in n-butane oxidation 
and the identification of the active sites involved in the 
different steps of the reaction. 
Bordes and C ~ u r t i n e ~ ~ J ~ ~  
suggest that the active sites 
in n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride are associ- 
ated with coherent interfaces between slabs of (100) 
VOP04 and of (010) (VO)2P207 
along the (100) and 
(201) planes, respectively. Volta et al.,117-119 
on the 
contrary, believe that the active sites are not associated 
with interfacial effects between two crystalline phases. 
On the basis of comparison between X-ray diffraction 
and radial electron distribution data they suggest that 
the active phase for selective oxidation of n-butane 
consists of a mixture of well-crystallized (VO)zP207 
(V4+) and an amorphous surface PVO phase of V5+ 
involving many corner-sharing V06 octahedra. This 
amorphous phase may be interpreted as a precursor of 
p-VOP04, 
which forms at higher reaction temperatures. 
According to Buchanan et al.l14 a methanol washing 
treatment of the catalysts removes a soluble amorphous 
V5+ species, and this treatment, as opposed to that 
suggested by Volta et al,,117-119 
improves catalytic per- 
formance. A solubilizable amorphous V5+Po4 
phase 
was evidenced also by Centi et al.58 Buchanan et al.lI4 
suggest that strongly oxidizing or reducing treatments 
lead to catalysts with particularly poor selectivity and 
in situ activation procedures in n-butanelair at reaction 
temperatures give the best results. However, Hodnett 
and D e l m ~ n ~ " ~ ~  
used a prereduction treatment with 
hydrogen in order to improve selectivity to maleic an- 
hydride and suggest that the best catalyst consists of. 
an oxidized surface layer built upon a reduced core of 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 50 
a V4+ phase. The selectivity is not related to the 
presence of a specific well-crystallized phase, but only 
to the distribution of vanadium oxidation states be- 
tween the bulk and the surface. 
The active catalyst must possess an optimal V4+/V5+ 
ratio for selectivity in n-butane oxidation according to 
Zazhigalov et al.lo3 
from studies of V/P-mica com- 
pounds with variable V(IV)/V(V) 
ratios. These com- 
pounds preserve the layer structure of the initial a- 
V5+OP04 
compound. Optimal performance properties 
are associated with catalysts containing 4-9 V(V) ions 
per V(1V) ion. The same authors124-1n 
have studied the 
catalytic behavior of a- 
and p-VOP04 
phases in n-bu- 
tane oxidation. No significant differences in the ac- 
tivities of the two phases were 0b~erved.l~~ 
n-Butane 
oxidation and maleic anhydride formation take place 
at the expense of the catalyst surface oxygen and are 
accompanied by its reduction to vanadyl pyro- 
phosphate. On vanadyl pyropho~phate,'~~J~~ 
however, 
the rate of reduction of the catalyst is lower than that 
of reaction, and therefore these authors conclude that 
the V(V) phase is reduced and that the V(1V) phase is 
oxidized under the dynamic conditions of catalytic re- 
action. Similar conclusions are reported by Moser and 
Schrader113 
from a flow reactor study of the effect of 
oxygen in the selective oxidation of n-butane over 0- 
VOP04 
and (VO)2P207. 
Maximum selectivity for ma- 
leic anhydride on the oxidized phase is obtained at a 
lower oxygen partial pressure than on vanadyl pyro- 
phosphate, which gives, however, the best overall se- 
lectivities. Furthermore, these authors have studied the 
non-steady-state catalytic behavior of these PVO cat- 
alysts and indicate that for both catalysts steady-state 
behavior is reached after about 5-10 h on stream. 
During transient behavior selectivity to maleic anhy- 
dride increases, but no clear indication of bulk/surface 
modifications is given. 
Wenig and Schrader41 
claim that only (VO)zP207 
is 
the active and selective phase in n-butane oxidation to 
maleic anhydride. A slight "excess" of catalyst phos- 
phorus (P:V = 1.1 
catalyst) is necessary to stabilize the 
active phase. The excess phosphorus creates a distor- 
tion of the P2074- 
crystal environment. The a-VOP04 
is considered by these authors as an active, but non- 
selective, phase. Shimoda et al.52 
also propose the va- 
nadyl pyrophosphate as the active phase. They stress 
the importance of a stable well-defined crystalline 
structure. Amorphous V4+ 
phases or crystalline phases 
of V(V) (a- 
and p-VOP04) 
were found to be nonselec- 
tive, and after use structural changes of the catalysts 
were not observed in the case of a- 
and p-VOP04 
and 
(VO)zPz07. 
The results of Contractor et al.,22 
Johnson 
et al.?lJ1l Pepera et al.,129 
and Trifirb et a1.60J0~96J05J30 
agree with the identification of vanadyl pyrophosphate 
as the active phase in n-butane oxidation. Contractor 
et al.22 
indicate that in the absence of gas-phase oxygen 
it is possible to eliminate highly active surface oxygen 
species that are not selective. Using a recirculating 
solids reactor, with separate hydrocarbon-catalyst and 
oxygen-catalyst stages, it is possible to increase the 
selectivity to maleic anhydride to near 80%. 
Trifid et a1,60~70~96~120~121~130-133 
attribute only the ac- 
tivity of the catalyst to the V4+ phase (the vanadyl 
pyrophosphate), whereas the selectivity to maleic an- 
hydride was connected to the presence of a very limited 
and controlled amount of Vv sites.120J30-133 
The selec- 
60 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 
tivity to maleic anhydride passes through a maximum130 
for a well-defined value of the degree of surface oxi- 
dation (number of V5+ 
ions with respect to the total 
amount of surface vanadium sites). 
The same discordances as 
to the nature of the active 
phase are present in the literature concerning the op- 
timal P:V atomic ratio of the catalysts, even though 
there is a general agreement that phosphorus stabilizes 
the +4 valence state of vanadium and limits its oxida- 
tion.24~28~37.41,54,59,60i131 
Van Geem and 
studied 
catalysts with 0.3-2.4 P:V atomic ratio and concluded 
that the selectivity to maleic anhydride does not depend 
on the P:V ratio, but is only dependent on the degree 
of conversion of hydrocarbon. Garbassi et al.37 
have 
found that the specific conversion of n-butane increases 
by an order of magnitude for a P:V ratio just exceeding 
unity, but extended X-ray absorption measurements do 
not show any structural effect of the phosphorus. 
The P:V ratio is a key parameter in determining 
catalyst selectivity and activity according to Wenig and 
S ~ h r a d e r . ~ ~  
Selectivity for maleic anhydride increases 
with catalyst phosphorus loading, whereas specific ac- 
tivity of both selective and nonselective oxidation de- 
creases on increase of phosphorus content in the 0.9-1.2 
P:V range. Best catalytic performances are exhibited 
with a catalyst with a P:V ratio of 1.1. Buchanan and 
SundaresanlN 
in an extensive kinetics study found that 
a catalyst with P:V ratio of 1.0 was approximately twice 
as active as a catalyst with P:V ratio of 1.1, 
while the 
selectivities to maleic anhydride were similar. Fur- 
thermore, they suggest that only surface P:V ratio is 
important because the transient kinetics results indicate 
the redox processes under reaction conditions are lim- 
ited to a near-surface region, according to data of 
Pepera et a1.129 
However, the P:V surface atomic ratio of PVO cata- 
lysts as determined by X-ray photoelectron spectros- 
copy can be very different. Garbassi et al.37 
found a 
value of P:V surface ratio in the 2.0-2.8 range for P:V 
bulk ratios in the 1.0-1.4 range. Hodnett and Del- 
m0n28339 
report that the surface P:V ratio is l 
for bulk 
stoichiometric P:V values of 1 
or higher. They con- 
cl~de~*-~O 
therefore that the reactivity of near-surface 
layers is hardly affected by the P:V ratio, but bulk 
reactivity is drastically curtailed. 
Selectivity to maleic anhydride from n-butane max- 
imizes for P:V = 1.0 according to Ai,42 and they that 
associate this catalytic effect with the presence of 
strong-acid sites to activate n-butane. Finally, an op- 
timal value of P:V around 1.0 was suggested by Con- 
tractor et aLZ2 
and by Trifirb et a1.'j0.70J05J31 
In conclusion, the scientific literature does not 
present a clear indication of the real nature of the active 
phase in n-butane selective conversion to maleic an- 
hydride and the optimal characteristics for the PVO 
catalyst. This is partly related to the fact that some- 
times only fragmentary and partial catalytic tests are 
presented from the authors, with poor information 
about the lifetime catalytic behavior of the examined 
catalysts. However, extensive analytical studies of used 
commercial vanadium phosphorus oxide catalysts from 
the fixed-bed butane process reveal the following:135 (i) 
the equilibrated catalyst (after more than 200 h on 
stream), independent of the method of preparation (i.e., 
for example, in aqueous or organic solvent96), 
has an 
average P:V ratio of 1 .OO T 0.02; (ii) the oxidation state 
Centi et al. 
methyl vlnyl ketone 
Figure 2. Possible reaction network" 
for the oxidation of 
but-1-ene on (VO)2P207. 
I 
I 
0 
2 
4 
6 
T I M E ,  HOURS 
Figure 3. Temperature 
of hydrocarbon total conversi~n~~ 
as a 
function of time on stream on a high surface area fresh vanadyl 
pyrophosphate. Reactants (0) 
but-1-ene; (8) 
n-butane. 
of vanadium is 4.00-4.03; (iii) the X-ray diffraction 
pattern is attributed to a single crystalline phase, the 
vanadyl pyrophosphate. 
We may assume in the following discussion of the 
mechanism of n-butane conversion that these last re- 
sults are really representative of the equilibrated active 
phase. Catalytic results for fresh catalysts (with time 
on stream less than equilibrated catalysts) will be as- 
sumed to be indicative of transient behavior and are 
useful to illustrate particular aspects of the mechanism 
of the reaction and the nature of active sites involved 
in the different steps. 
11 
I .  Detection of Intermediates in the Oxidation 
of n-Butane under Steady-State and Transient 
Conditions 
A. Steady-State Experlments 
In the oxidation of C4 
olefins over vanadium phos- 
phorus oxides, several products of partial oxidation are 
formed and detected,136 
as briefly outlined in the re- 
action network for the oxidation of but-1-ene in Figure 
2. By comparison, only maleic anhydride, carbon ox- 
ides, and trace amounts of acetic acid and acrylic acid 
are detected in the oxidation of butane on the same 
catalyst70 
or on industrial  catalyst^.^-'^ Low yields of 
butenes and butadiene were detected by Moser and 
Schrader'l3 on a (VO)2P207 
catalyst with very poor 
catalytic performance. These data on the mechanism 
may not be comparable with the more active catalysts 
for n-butane oxidation. The above observations 
suggest 
that the oxidation of n-butane may proceed without 
intermediate desorption from the active site instead of 
through a preliminary dehydrogenation step to butenes 
followed by a mechanism analogous to that for the 
formation of maleic anhydride from butenes. 
To clarify this important question, it is worthwhile 
to consider the relatives rates of oxidation of butenes 
and n-butane on the same catalyst to determine 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C, Hydrocarbons 
$ , 
-i 
10 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 61 
temperature :C 
-
-
 
100 
-
-
I
 
b 
temperature ,’C 
Figure 4. Effect of the temperature on the formation of products 
in n-butane oxidation at high paraffin concentration13 on vanadyl 
pyrophosphate: (a) maleic anhydride (e), 
carbon oxides (A), 
but-1-ene 
and bubZene (o), 
butadiene (0); 
(b) oxygen conversion 
(W), acetic acid (O), 
furan (A), 
crotonaldehyde ( A ) ,  
methyl vinyl 
ketone ( A ) .  Feed: oxygen concentration, 10% 
; 
n-butane con- 
centration, 30.5%. 
whether the nondetectability of intermediates is a 
consequence of differences in the kinetic constants for 
alkane versus alkene oxidation. However, at least on 
the PVO catalysts more active in n-butane oxidation, 
the interaction with the olefinic hydrocarbon leads to 
a rapid loss of surface area of the catalystm and a rapid 
decrease of the activity (Figure 3). Thus, it is not 
possible to reliably compare the olefin and paraffin 
kinetic constants on the same PVO surface. However, 
a comparison of initial activities at non-steady-state 
 condition^'^^ suggests the ratio of the rate of butene 
oxidation to the rate of butane oxidation (assuming 
first-order kinetics for both reagents) is higher than 50. 
For consecutive first-order reactions of the type 
n-butane - 
butenes - 
maleic anhydride (3) 
the maximum expected concentration of olefins is given 
by137 
Cmar,,,lerins klkz/(kz-kl) 
1 
2 
(4) 
For an initial concentration of n-butane of 1%, the 
maximum concentration of intermediate olefins formed 
is very low, and therefore the nondetectability of olefins 
in the oxidation of n-butane in steady-state experiments 
could be justified for kinetic reasons. In order to in- 
crease the detectability of intermediates, two experi- 
mental approaches can be used. In accordance 
with eq 
4, experiments at high n-butane concentrations (about 
30%) 
favor the detection of intermediates. In addition, 
fast nonequilibrium transient experiments that arec 
possible in a TAP (temporal analysis of products) re- 
- 
- 
CO,butane 
k2 
? 5 t  P ‘
O
\
/
/
 
0 2  
, %  
Figure 5. Effect of oxygen concentration on the formation of 
products in n-butane oxidation at high paraffin c~ncentrationl~~ 
on vanadyl pyrophosphate: (w) oxygen conversion; (0) 
maleic 
anhydride; (A) 
carbon oxides; (0) 
but-1-ene and but-2-ene; (0) 
butadiene. Note: to facilitate reading of the graph, the mol g-’ 
s-l of butenes and butadiene are twice the actual values found. 
Feed n-butane concentration, 30.5% 
; 
reaction temperature: 360 
“C. 
a ~ t o r ~ ~ * ~ ~ J ~ ~  
make intermediate detection possible. 
Results from these two types of experimentation lead 
to similar conclusions. 
At high n-butane concentrations (about 30%), 
it is 
necessary to decrease the oxygen concentration to under 
approximately 10% in order to keep outside the ex- 
plosion limits. Under these experimental conditions, 
the limiting reagent is the oxygen. Figures 4 and 5 
report the results obtained133 
in the oxidation of n-bu- 
tane at high concentration of hydrocarbon as 
a function 
of the \reaction temperature and the oxygen concen- 
tration. In contrast to the results of catalytic tests at 
low hydrocarbon concentrations, high amounts of 
butenes, butadiene, and other byproducts similar to 
those seen in the direct oxidation of olefins are ob- 
tained. Similar byproducts are observed either by de- 
creasing the oxygen concentration directly or by de- 
pleting the amount of available oxygen through chem- 
ical reaction at higher temperatures. It is worthy of 
note that the formation of typical products of butene 
and butadiene direct o x i d a t i ~ n ~ ~ J ~ ~  
such as 
methyl vinyl 
ketone or crotonaldehyde exactly coincides with the 
appearance of the former as products in n-butane ox- 
idation (Figure 4). It might be argued that they form 
by consecutive interaction of the desorbed olefins with 
the catalyst surface. In all cases, the concentration of 
byproducts is greatest when the oxygen conversion is 
100%. These results suggest the amount of oxygen 
present at the surface is an important factor in the 
formation of olefins and other byproducts. However, 
the very highly reducing conditions necessary in order 
to isolate the intermediates in steady-state 
conditions 
suggest these products may form on a significantly 
modified catalyst sur€ace. Grasselli et al.130J40 
have 
shown that the “density of oxidizing sites” 
is a tool for 
modifying the selectivity in reactions of selective oxi- 
dation. With increase in degree of reduction of a metal 
oxide surface it is possible to control the nature of the 
product of oxidation. Products of partial oxidation may 
be obtained only through site isolation of the oxidizing 
centers. Similarly, the highly reducing conditions 
utilized (Figures 4 and 5 )  probably do not change the 
mechanism of reaction, but only the distribution of the 
active sites. A reduced degree of surface oxidation 
limits the rate of consecutive oxidation of the inter- 
mediates of reaction and allows their desorption into 
the gas phase. 
62 Chemical Reviews. 1988, Vol. 88. No. 1 
B. The-Resolved Analysls 
The TAP reactor is a unique, transient type catalyst 
evaluation s y ~ t e m ' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ' ~ ~  
that has been specifically de- 
signed for detection of reaction intermediates and de- 
termination of reaction sequences (Figure 6). Using 
high-speed injections (200-ps pulse widths) of molecular 
feed into a 0.5-mL reactor containing 500-pm catalyst 
particles, it is possible to identify and track the for- 
mation of intermediates as a function of time with 
millisecond time resolution. Since the reador is em- 
bedded in a vacuum chamber and the analytical de- 
tection system is a quadrupole mass spectrometer sep- 
arated from the reactor by differentially pumped 
chambers, desorbing intermediates have an essentially 
collision-free 
path to the detector. Moreover, a typical 
pulse intensity of IOL5 
molecules will address only about 
IO4 of the total surface area of 1 g of a 1
0
 
m2/g vana- 
dium phosphorus oxide catalyst. This means the sur- 
face is not significantly perturbed by several thousand 
pulses of reactants. 
When a (VO),P,O, catalyst 
equilibrated in a conventional fixed-bed reactor is ex- 
amined in the TAP system with pulses of a 4 1  
mixture 
of oxygen/butane at 420 "C and 1-2% butane con- 
version,'I 
the entire series of intermediates in the bu- 
tane oxidation reaction is observed (Figure 7). The 
product peaks are actudy about 100 times less intense 
than the butane peak, but the peak maxima are nor- 
malized in the figure to facilitate time comparisons. 
The observed products are butene, butadiene, furan, 
carbon dioxide, and water. The carbon dioxide and 
water peaks are not displayed, and the carbon mon- 
oxide, which also is formed, cannot be deconvoluted 
from the other fragments at mass 28. In addition to 
showing the formation of intermediates at 
higher oxy- 
gen to hydrocarbon ratios, the reaction sequence is in- 
dicated. Comparison of the curve times of the inter- 
mediates to the butane curve shows that the individual 
peak maxima are shifted to later times relative to the 
butane maximum, following the order expected for 
stepwise butane oxidation. Note the butene curve de- 
cays more rapidly than the butadiene curve, which 
decays more rapidly than the butane curve. This is a 
result of the rapid conversion of the olefins to other 
products. In similar experiments using butene or bu- 
tadiene as the initial reactant, conversions as high as 
50% are observed. The lack of sharp decay in the case 
Cent1 et al. 
1 
Figure 7. Single-pulse format data" presenting 
the normalized 
mass intensity 
vs time m e s  
of desorbing reaction intermediates 
produced by pulsing a 4 1  
02/hutane mixture over (VO)lP,O, at 
420 O C .  The times of peak maximum are 8.2 ms (butane), 11.4 
ms (butene), 16.5 ms (butadiene), 
and 22.5 ms (furan). 
of the furan curve indicates that very little furan is 
converted to products, and this is consistent with the 
fact that no maleic anhydride is ohserved.,However, 
when the catalyst is first pulsed extensively 
with oxygen 
at reaction temperature and subsequently pulsed with 
a 4 1  
oxygen/butane mixture, maleic anhydride is ob- 
served and the intermediate products are not. Con- 
tinued pulsing with the reactant mixture eventually 
leads to the reappearance of intermediate products. 
These resulta indicate the intermediates desorb when 
the (VO),P,O, is not fully oxidized. Further, while 
butene and butadiene are readily oxidized to furan, 
furan is not readily converted to maleic anhydride on 
a partially oxidized surface. 
These 
two very different approaches 
to determination 
of intermediates in n-butane oxidation lead to the same 
conclusions. The vanadium phosphorus oxides are able 
to dehydrogenate the n-butane to olefins, and these 
olefins react further to form partial oxidation producta. 
When insufficient oxygen is channeled to the active site, 
intermediate products may desorb and react at other 
sites. When surface 
oxygen concentrations are high, the 
evidence supports a single-site 
mechanism for selective 
conversion of n-butane to maleic anhydride; Le., once 
n-butane is activated, it remains bound to the surface 
in various forms until desorption as maleic anhydride 
occurs. 
IV. Kinetics of C, Hydrocarbon Oxidation 
A. ndutane 
Several studies have been made in recent yems to 
derive kinetic expressions to describe the reaction se- 
quence for n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride in 
steady-state conditions on vanadium phosphorus ox- 
~~e~~10.131.134.141-1~ 
Escardino et al.'41 studied the reaction in a fluid bed 
reactor using a catalyst with P V  
= 0
.
8
.
 A triangular 
reaction network was proposed. At low hydrocarbon 
partial pressures the behavior of the n-butane oxidation 
reaction was predicted with three single pseudo-first- 
order reactions. Oxygen chemisorption was identified 
as the rate-determining step at large butane pressure, 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C
,
 Hydrocarbons 
SCHEME I. Kinetic Model Utilized by Lerou et aleLU 
in a 
Study of n 
-Butane Selective Oxidation to Maleic 
Anhydride on a VPO Catalyst 
REACTION NETWORK 
.'. 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 
T.573 K 
BUTANE - 
r
.
 - 
MALEIC ANHYDRIDE 
and at typical n-butane concentrations, the rate of de- 
pletion was controlled by the reaction between butane 
in the gas phase and surface adsorbed oxygen. 
Wohlfahrt and H ~ f m a n n ' ~ ~  
studied a catalyst with 
P:V = 1.06 and extended the range of hydrocarbon and 
oxygen concentrations investigated by Escardino et 
al.141 
and found that n-butane is oxidized according to 
a rate equation of the type 
kpgp00.285 
-rg = 
+ 
KPB 
and maleic anhydride is oxidized according to a rate 
equation of the type 
kpu00.285 
rm = 
(6) 
where the subscripts B, 0, 
and MA designate butane, 
oxygen, and maleic anhydride, respectively. However, 
the catalyst preparations adopted by these a u t h o r ~ ' ~ ~ J ~ ~  
for the kinetics analysis lead to catalysts with poor 
selectivity to maleic anhydride. 
More recent kinetics s t ~ d i e s ~ ~ J ~ ~ J ~ ~ J ~ ~  
have been 
conducted on catalysts with higher selectivities and 
yields to maleic anhydride (50-60% molar yield). 
Substantial inhibition of the oxidation reaction by 
maleic anhydride and water was found by Sharma and 
Cresswell,'43 Lerou,14 and Buchanan and Sundaresan.l% 
The lattermost authors,l= however, include the water 
and maleic anhydride effects in a single lumped term 
involving only the maleic anhydride concentration. The 
adsorption model proposed by Lerou14 gives the best 
fit to experimental results, and it is based on the re- 
action model reported in Scheme 1. 
Most of the kinetics studies found an order of reac- 
tion 1 
for the dependence of the rate of n-butane de- 
pletion upon hydrocarbon partial pressure. However, 
these kinetics studies present some discordances. The 
more relevant are the reaction order for the dependence 
of the rates on oxygen partial pressure and the activa- 
tion energies of the different rates. A low oxygen order 
dependence for the rate of n-butane depletion was 
found by Wohlfahrt and H ~ f m a n n l ~ ~  
and by Centi et 
al.'O (0.28 and 0.23, respectively), whereas the reaction, 
order was 0.5 according to the Sharma modella and 1.0 
1 
+ KPB 
1 63 
converslon 
Figure 8. Maleic anhydride yield at 300 "C 
conver~ion~~ 
on a 
high surface area fresh vanadyl pyrophosphate: (0) 
0.32% n- 
butane; (A) 0.70% 
n-butane; 
(w) 1.10% n-butane. 02/n-butane 
= 15.0 in all tests. 
according to adsorption model proposed by L e r ~ u . ' ~ ~  
The Buchanan and S ~ n d a r e s a n l ~ ~  
two-step redox ki- 
netics model leads to a rate expression for butane ox- 
idation of the form 
where the exponent n of the oxygen concentration can 
be 0.5 or 1.0 and not affect the fitting of the data. The 
redox model is based on transient experiments showing 
that PVO catalysts supply oxygen for the oxidation of 
butane even in the absence of O2 in the feed mix- 
t ~ r e . ~ J ~ ~ J ~ ~  
Activation energies are also different ac- 
cording to the various research groups, but it may be 
roughly correlated to the observed dependence on ox- 
ygen concentration. Lower activation energies were 
found by Wohlfahrt and H ~ f m a n n l ~ ~  
and by Centi et 
al.,70 
whereas higher activation energies were reported 
by Buchanan and Sundaresad% 
and Lerou.14 In light 
of these results and according to what was presented 
in the section on the structure of the catalyst, we will 
discuss the kinetics results and their relevance on the 
basis of the difference between catalytic behavior of 
fresh and equilibrated catalysts. 
We refer to equilibrated catalysts as those in which 
the valence four of vanadium is well stable and its ox- 
idation to V5+ 
is less dependent on the hydrocarbon/ 
oxygen ratio in the reagent mixture. These catalysts 
show higher selectivities to maleic anhydride, especially 
at the higher conversions. These characteristics are 
representative of commercial catalysts equilibrated 
under the reaction conditions. The results of Buchanan 
and S~ndaresanl~~ 
and of Lerou14 fit catalysts of this 
type. They show very little dependence of the catalytic 
behavior on a change of the hydrocarbon/oxygen ratio. 
L e r ~ u ' ~ ~  
reports that the maleic anhydride yield de- 
creases only for conversions higher than about 95%. 
For contact times higher than those corresponding to 
total conversion, the yield of maleic anhydride drasti- 
cally decreases. Very comparable 
results are presented 
by Buchanan and S~ndaresan.'~~ 
On the other hand, the kinetics results of Centi et aL70 
must be interpreted as indicative of the catalytic be- 
havior of a fresh catalyst. A fresh catalyst possesses a 
higher rate of vanadium oxidation due to defects in the 
structure. The dependence of the maleic anhydride 
yield on the conversion (Figure 8) shows a well-defined 
maximum for a conversion of about 80%. A further 
64 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 
Centi et ai. 
I 
X
I
 
I
,
 
=
I
 
,
I
 
-' 
0 
ob 
20 
4
1
0
 
6'0 
eo 
I& 
conversion, 
Figure 9. Selectivity 
in maleic anhydride and oxygenln-butane 
residual concentration ratios as a function of the conversion.70 
Feed: 1.10% n-butane, O,/butane = 15.0; reaction temperature: 
300 "C; 
same catalyst as in Figure 8. 
increase in conversion drastically decreases the yield of 
maleic anhydride to around 10% for total conversion. 
The decrease of selectivity to maleic anhydride parallels 
an increase of the ratio of residual concentration of 
oxygen to n-butane (Figure 9). This ratio is propor- 
tional to the oxidizing power of the reagent mixture, 
suggesting that at the end of the catalytic bed (corre- 
sponding to high conversion) the formed maleic anhy- 
dride is not stable in this catalytic system due to ov- 
eroxidation of surface. An increase of Vv concentration 
at the end of catalytic bed was confirmed by chemical 
and spectroscopic analyses of the discharged cata- 
l y ~ t s . ~ ~ J ~ l  
In the kinetics models of Buchanan and 
S ~ n d a r e s a n l ~ ~  
and Ler01-1~~~ 
the selectivity to maleic 
anhydride does not depend on the initial n-butane/ 
oxygen ratio, whereas according to Centi et al.70 
the 
selectivity to maleic anhydride increases on increasing 
this ratio. This is because on the catalytic system of 
Centi et al.70 
it is important to limit the overoxidation 
of the formed maleic anhydride due to the higher degree 
of surface oxidation. Furthermore, this catalyst is more 
active and operates in a range of reaction temperatures 
about 100 "C lower than any previously examined 
catalytic ~ y s t e m , l ~ ~ J ~ ~  
and thus the activation energy 
for n-butane depletion is lower. 
We offer the following interpretation of the differ- 
ences in the kinetic behaviors in n-butane oxidation 
observed by the different groups. In the catalytic 
system utilized by Centi et aL70 the rate of oxidation 
of V4+ 
to V5+ 
is higher than in the other ~ a t a l y s t s . ' ~ ~ J ~ ~  
Therefore, in this system the dependence of the rate 
of n-butane depletion shows a reduced order in oxygen 
partial pressures. Also under these conditions the de- 
gree of surface oxidation is much more dependent upon 
reagent composition as well as on its change as a 
function of the conversion in the reactor bed. On the 
other hand, under these conditions the catalyst is more 
active and the rate of n-butane depletion has a lower 
activation energy due to enhanced redox properties of 
vanadium connected to the defective structure of the 
vanadyl pyrophosphate utilized. This is confirmed by 
the transient kinetics tests reported by Buchanan and 
S ~ n d a r e s a n . ~ ~ ~  
The transient experiments were con- 
ducted in a flow reactor and the rate of n-butane de- 
pletion was determined after a rapid switching of the 
inlet feed mixture from a butane/air mixture with a 
high Oz/hydrocarbon ratio to a second feed mixture 
with a lower Oz/butane 
concentration ratio. The ob- 
served rate of butane depletion was higher than ex- 
pected for a period of about 1-2 min after the change, 
confirming the higher activity of an oxidized surface. 
In the case of the catalytic systems utilized by Bu- 
chanan and S~ndaresan'~~ 
and L e r o P  
the lower rate 
of vanadium surface oxidation results in the observed 
higher reaction order in oxygen concentration and the 
reduced reactivity of the surface in the rate of both 
n-butane depletion and maleic anhydride consecutive 
oxidation. 
In conclusion, 
the comparison of these kinetics results 
stresses the importance of surface catalyst redox level 
in determining the catalytic behavior (selectivity to 
maleic anhydride) as well as the role of the redox 
properties of vanadium (evidenced by the different 
activation energies) in determining the activity of the 
catalyst. From a mechanistic point of view, kinetics 
results of almost all authors indicate that the activation 
of n-butane is the rate-determining step, whereas some 
discordances are present in the literature concerning the 
activation of oxygen in the rate-determining step. 
B. Butenes and Butadiene 
As discussed in the previous section, the butenes and 
butadiene are intermediates in the mechanism of n- 
butane conversion to maleic anhydride, or, more ex- 
actly, the catalyst forms intermediates that may desorb 
as these olefins. Furthermore, since the first step of 
n-butane activation is the rate-determining step of the 
reaction, information on the reactivity and kinetics of 
the consecutive steps in steady-state can only be ob- 
tained by studying the kinetics of the intermediate 
olefins. In this section, we compare and comment on 
particular aspects of the kinetic behavior of these ole- 
finic hydrocarbons. The kinetics of the 1- 
and 2-butenes 
and butadiene have been more extensively stud- 
ied43-46J39J46-151 
than the kinetics of n-butane, but in this 
section we present only data useful for the mechanistic 
analysis of n-butane oxidation. 
In the C4 alkene oxidation an interesting effect is 
ob~erved.'~~J~J'@ 
On increasing the hydrocarbon con- 
centration, the formation of maleic anhydride reaches 
a maximum and then decreases with a corresponding 
increase in the formation of butadiene. An increase in 
oxygen partial pressure while keeping butene constant 
causes an increase in the formation of maleic anhydride. 
The olefin concentration corresponding to the value of 
the maximum maleic anhydride shifts to higher values 
on increase of oxygen concentration. Similar results are 
found in butadiene oxidation. Also a self-inhibition 
effect of the hydrocarbon on the synthesis of the maleic 
anhydride and an almost linear dependence of the 
self-inhibition effect upon the O2 concentration are 
observed. 
These data can be interpreted on the basis of a ki- 
netic model1'@ 
derived from the Langmuir-Hinshelwood 
mechanism in which the rate-determining step for 
maleic anhydride formation is surface reaction between 
adsorbed oxygen on a single site and the intermediate 
butadiene adsorbed on two adjacent sites. From a 
mechanistic point of view, these data lead to some in- 
teresting conclusions: 
(i) The equivalence between deactivation of the sites 
for the synthesis of maleic anhydride and increase in 
the formation of butadiene is a further indication of the 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C4 Hydrocarbons 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 65 
CONVERSION, '
/
o
 
Figure 10. Dependence of the maleic anhydride yield on the 
conversionag 
in the oxidation of n-butane (0) 
and of but-l-ene 
(0) 
on a high surface area fresh vanadyl pyrophosphate. 
.
8
n
l
 
0 
Btd 
O' 
240 
300 
350 
' 
temp..C 
Figure 11. Effect of the reaction temperature on the selectivity 
of main products in but-l-ene oxidation'% (a) and on the valence 
state of vanadium (b) 
for a vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst (P:V 
= 1.01). Legend (EM) butadiene, (MA) maleic anhydride, (CO,) 
carbon oxides. Feed 0.6% but-l-ene, 12% 02. 
intermediate formation of butadiene (an adsorbed 
precursor of butadiene) in the mechanism from butenes 
to maleic anhydride. 
(ii) The C4 
olefins strongly adsorb on the surface of 
the catalyst, and their adsorption inhibits that of the 
oxygen. 
(iii) The rate-determining step in the conversion of 
butenes is not the hydrocarbon activation, but the 
surface step of oxygen insertion on the adsorbed acti- 
vated hydrocarbon (that may desorb as 
butadiene in the 
absence of sites of oxygen insertion). The kinetic be- 
havior is very different from the other known reactions 
of olefin selective oxidation, such as 
propene conversion 
to 
where the rate-determining step is the 
olefin activation by abstraction of an allylic hydrogen 
atom. In the oxidation of olefins on PVO catalysts, the 
most critical problem is maintaining the vanadium 
phosphorus catalyst at a sufficient degree of surface 
oxidation to allow the oxidation of the intermediate 
adsorbed hydrocarbon up to maleic anhydride. The 
very strong adsorption of these hydrocarbons on the 
surface of the catalyst inhibits the oxygen adsorption, 
thus maintaining the surface of the catalyst in a lower 
oxidation state. This also explains why some au- 
t h o r ~ ~ , ~ ~ * ~ ~ ~  
indicate that the active phase in maleic 
anhydride formation from butenes is a mixture of va- 
nadyl pyrophosphate (vanadium(1V)) 
and VOP04 
(va- 
' 
nadium(V)). 
800 
700 
600 
500 
400 
WAVELENGTH.nm 
Figure 12. Diffuse reflectance spectra of the same catalyst as 
in Figure 11 after interaction with but-l-ene/air at different 
temperatures:'% (-) 
220 "C; 
(...) 300 "C; (---) 370 "C. 
Finally, it is worthwhile to illustrate the different 
trends of the yield of maleic anhydride vs 
hydrocarbon 
conversion found by Cavani et al.69 
in the oxidation of 
n-butane and butenes under similar conditions and on 
the same catalyst (Figure 10). Apart from the loss of 
selectivity at conversions higher than 80%, which de- 
pends on the specific nature of the catalyst, n-butane 
oxidation to 
maleic anhydride is more selective than the 
butene reaction. The reduced surface concentration of 
intermediates in the n-butane reaction (i) avoids their 
desorption (for example, butadiene 'is a typical product 
of but-l-ene oxidation at conversions lower than 100%) 
and (ii) makes possible their fast further transformation 
to useful product. This reaction of oxidation and oxy- 
gen insertion is inhibited by a high surface concentra- 
tion of intermediates, as shown by the butene kinetic 
data. Both factors limit the possible parallel reaction 
of these intermediates, increasing the selectivity to 
useful product, maleic anhydride. 
V. Surface Modtilcatlons by Interaction of C, 
Hydrocarbons with the Catalyst Surface 
The very different kinetic behaviors of the alkene and 
alkane reactants bring into question the different cat- 
alyst surface effects induced by the two reactants. 
Szakacs et al.lZ7 
studied the oxidation of but-l-ene 
and n-butane to maleic anhydride in a pulse micro- 
reactor in the presence of gaseous O2 on a VOP04 
catalyst. Oxygen balances show that in both cases, in 
spite of the presence of gas-phase 02, 
the Vv phosphate 
acts as the oxygen source. However, in the but-l-ene 
conversion the amount of lattice oxygen incorporated 
in the products of reaction is much higher than in the 
n-butane case, pointing out the substantial difference 
in the reactivity and of the type of interaction of the 
two hydrocarbons. Catalytic behavior in the pulse tests 
changed with the number of pulses, parallel to the 
modification of the catalyst surface.127J36J53 
This il- 
lustrates the relationship between surface modifications 
derived from the redox interactions of the hydrocarbon 
and oxygen with the catalyst surface and self-induced 
modifications on catalytic behavior. The working state 
of catalyst under steady-state 
conditions depends upon 
the nature of this dynamic interaction.bl.120p130 
However, 
this also offers the possibility of studying the mecha- 
nism of reaction under steady-state dynamic conditions 
and analyzing the nature of the products formed as a 
66 Chemical Reviews, 1988. Vol. 88, No. 1 
Centi et al. 
i-butene in feed , 
x "01. 
Figure 13. The formed mol g-' 9' of maleic anhydride (open 
symbols) and of butadiene (full symbols) 
in the oxidation of 
hut-1-ene 
at different 
oxygen concentrations?39 
Reaction tem- 
perature: 405 "C. 
function of the type of surface modifications induced 
by the hydrocarhon/Oz interaction. Due to the higher 
reducing power and reactivity of butenes as compared 
to n-butanes, results with the former hydrocarbon will 
be compared with those of the alkane in order to 
highlight some aspects and the common features of the 
mechanism of reaction. 
Figure 1
1
 
illustrates the main products obtained in 
but-1-ene oxidation as 
a function of increasing reaction 
temperature and the relative amount of VI" and Vv 
present in the catalyst (the balance is present as 
V'").'36 
X-ray diffraction in all cases shows only the presence 
of the (VO)zPzO, 
phase. Three ranges of catalytic be- 
havior can be distinguished (i) at 
lower temperatures, 
the main product is butadiene; (ii) at an intermediate 
temperature, the main product is maleic anhydride; and 
(ii) at the higher temperature, carbon oxide formation 
predominates. The catalysts that are 100% Vw before 
the catalytic tests are reduced at low temperatures and 
oxidized at high temperatures.'"J" 
The reaction of the 
but-1-ene/oxygen mixture strongly affects the nature 
of the catalyst 
as 
a function of the reaction temperature. 
Variations of the oxidation state of the catalyst under 
the aforementioned three conditions are also shown by 
the diffuse reflectance spectra136 
in the UV-vis region 
(Figure 12). Results from the surface interaction with 
the hydrocarbon/oxygen mixture carried out as a 
function of the relative concentration of hydrocarbon 
and oxygen parallel those ~ b t a i n e d ~ ~ ~ ' ~ ~ J "  
by varying 
the reaction temperature at a fixed concentration. An 
increase of the but-1-ene/oxygen ratio results'39 in a 
decrease of the rate of maleic anhydride formation and 
an increase of the rate of butadiene formation (Figure 
13) with a corresponding disappearance of Vv and re- 
duction to produce v"'. An increase in the oxygen 
concentration results in an increase in the amount of 
Vv and of the rate of maleic anhydride formation. 
The good agreement between catalytic behavior 
(main product formed in the oxidation of but-1-ene in 
steady-state conditions) and surface-induced modifi- 
cations1Z0J3B 
suggests that the two different steps of 
oxidative dehydrogenation 
from hubl-ene to butadiene 
0 
vi 111 I 
0 
V i V )  
f l n  
n-Q"tsne.,n 
1.1 
1.1 
30 
30 
oxygen.u> 
2 
10 
2 
10 
Figure 14. Valence state of vanadium after reaction tests in 
different 
conditions (a) and rate and selectivity of maleic anhy- 
dride formation i
n
 butane oxidation at 300 
'
C
 and 10% 
0% 
and 
different butane concentrations (b)?33 
and oxidation from butadiene up to maleic anhydride 
require different valence states of vanadium. V
"
 re- 
duction to VI*' is required for the first step, and Vv 
reduction is required for the second step. 
When n-butane is oxidized under the same condi- 
tions, the degree of catalyst reduction is less than that 
observed with b~t-1-ene.B~ 
The catalyst exhibits less 
deactivation with the alkane compared with the alkene 
(Figure 3). However, when increased n-butaneloxygen 
ratios are used to observe 
the formation of intermediate 
olefin from 
(Figures 4 and 5), 
a deeper re- 
duction of the catalyst is seen as reflected by the for- 
mation of high amounts of V
"
'
 
(Figure 14a.)'33 Under 
these conditions, 
as 
in the case of bubl-ene, the vanadyl 
pyrophosphate catalyst rapidly and irreversibly deac- 
tivate~,'~~ 
but becomes more selective (Figure 14b). 
On the fresh catalyst used by Centi et alJO 
for their 
kinetics study, a critical factor governing the selectivity 
at very high butane conversions is the instability of the 
formed maleic anhydride in the back end of the cata- 
lytic bed. It is thus worthwhile to analyze the variations 
in the catalyst surface as a function of position in the 
catalytic bed.'"J3' 
Figure 15 
reports the valence state 
of vanadium (determined by chemical analysis), the 
broadness 
of the EPR signal of VOz+ 
ions in the catalyst 
(the broadness is associated with and proportional to 
the concentration of V
"
'
 in the sample), and the yield 
of maleic anhydride as a function of the conversion. 
Figure 8 illustrates the variation of the oxygen/hydro- 
carbon ratio as a function of the conversion. These 
results suggest that enhanced formation of Vv at the 
end of the catalyst bed is directly attributable to the 
more oxidizing atmosphere present. This increased 
concentration of Vv substantially decreases the final 
yield of maleic anhydride, most probably due to an 
enhanced rate of maleic anhydride decomposition on 
the fresh catalyst used by these a u t h 0 r s . 1 ~ ~ - ~ ~ ~  
On 
equilibrated catalysts, this effect is much less evident, 
due to the reduced rate of vanadium oxidation to Vv. 
This factor is important only for contact times higher 
than those required to achieve 100% conversion'44 
(presence of only residual 0, 
in the flow) or for very 
high oxygenln-butane ratios.'34 The recent results of 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C
,
 Hydrocarbons 
u
.
 E------*. 
Chemlcal Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, 
No. 1 67 
I b  
I
s
 
\I 
1 
40 
80 
z 01 / ,  
conversion, 
Figure 15. (a) Broadness (AH) 
of the EPR signal of V02+, 
(b) 
valence state of vanadium determined by chemical analyses, and 
(c) maleic anhydride yield as a function of the hydrocarbon 
conversion at 300 "C on a high surface area fresh vanadyl pyro- 
phosphate.131 Feed: 0.7% n-butane, oxygenlbutane = 15. 
Miyamoto et al.154 
on the oxidation of n-butane on 
various unsupported or supported Vv oxides confirm 
that Vv=O species are very active in total combustion 
of butane. 
These experimental results illustrate the important 
relationship between catalytic behavior and the surface 
modifications induced by the medium itself. The redox 
properties of the feed influence the surface oxidation 
state of the catalyst, which in turn profoundly affects 
the nature of the products formed in the reaction. In 
the oxidation of both n-butane and but-l-ene, partial 
oxidation products (butadiene in but-l-ene oxidation, 
or butenes and butadiene in n-butane oxidation) are 
observed at low oxygen concentrations when a very 
limited number of vanadium(V) species are present on 
the surface of the catalyst or when nonequilibrium 
conditions at reduced pressures are employed as in the 
TAP experiments. 
The change of valence state of vanadium thus de- 
pends upon a balance of three factors: (1) 
the redox 
potential of the feed, (2) the rate of oxidation of the 
catalyst at the temperature of reaction, and (3) the rate 
of reduction of the catalyst at the temperature of re- 
action. Literature results are in line with these con- 
clusions. However, a deeper examination of the dy- 
namics of the working state of the catalyst surface and 
the relationship between surface-induced modifications 
and catalytic behavior would lead to an even better 
understanding of the selectivity-controlling properties 
of these mixed oxides.130 
VI. Relatlonshlp bet 
ween Redox Propertles and 
Catalytlc Beha 
vlor 
As pointed out in the section on catalyst structure, 
the binary vanadium phosphorus oxide system is rather 
V(III1 WIV) V(V) .% 
0 
85 
15 
0 
100 
0 
--__ 
A
-
 
I t  
89 
0 
Figure 16. Effect of the presence of different valence states of 
vanadium on the principal X-ray diffraction lines of vanadyl 
pyrophosphate (P:V = l.0).136 
P V  
T-580K 
2 
1
.
0
9
,
 
_- 
ob 
i 
.
4
 
6 
b 
i '  
CONV 
Figure 17. Maleic anhydride yield vs conversion of n-butane for 
high surface area fresh VPO catalysts with different P V  
atomic 
rati05.l~~ 
Feed 0.7% n-butane, 12% 02. 
_ _  
1.05 
P:v 
0 
.95 
' 
Fi ure 18. Effect of the P:V atomic ratio136 
on the percent of 
(oxidation) and after 0.5 h at 500 O C  in a f
l
o
w
 of 2% H2/He 
(reduction). Initial catalyst: high surface area fresh (V0)2P20,, 
100% VI". 
V 
$ 
and of VI1' formed after 0.5 h at 400 "C in a f
l
o
w
 of air 
complicated because of the great variety of observed 
phases and the difficulties encountered in the devel- 
opment of successful and reproducible syntheses of pure 
single phases stable under reaction conditions. Over 
the past few years improved understanding of the fac- 
tors determining the structure of PVO has allowed the 
development of suitable methods of preparation of va- 
nadyl pyrophosphate. In particular, the preparation of 
vanadyl pyrophosphate active phase in organic media, 
i.e., utilizing an organic alcohol as solvent and also as 
the reducing agent for the Vv starting compound,m 
not 
only results in more active catalysts for n-butane oxi- 
but allows preparation of compounds with 
0.95-1.2 P:V atomic ratio and variable mean valence 
states of vanadium (up to about 20% of Vv) without 
significant changes of X-ray diffraction patterns (Figure 
16) and cell  parameter^.'^^ 
It is thus possible to modify and study the P:V ratio 
around the stoichiometric 
value (P:V = 1.0) without the 
formation of other crystalline phases. As illustrated in 
Figures 17 and 18, the variation of the content of P in 
68 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, 
No. 1 
the composition modifies the catalytic properties in 
n-butane oxidation131 
and butene oxidation60 (Figure 
17) and the redox properties of the catalysts,136 
i.e., the 
rate of VN oxidation to Vv and the rate of VN reduction 
to VI" (Figure 18). With respect to the stoichiometric 
ratio of the (VO)2P207, 
a slight deficiency of phosphorus 
does not change the rate of VN oxidation to Vv. On the 
other hand, an excess of phosphorus only slightly in- 
fluences the rate of oxidation, but strongly affects the 
rate of reduction. This effect is in part attributed to 
a decrease of the number of the active sites, but also 
reflects a particular kind of interaction of phosphorus 
upon the vanadium ions, as shown by the trend of ac- 
tivation energies of reduction and oxidation with respect 
to the P:V r a t i ~ . l ~ J ~ ~  
Similar results are obtained by 
studying the amount of VI1' formed in the catalyst by 
interaction with a mixture of but-1-ene/oxygen as a 
function of time of reaction and of P:V atomic ratio in 
the catalyst.136 In order to correlate the observed var- 
iations in the redox properties with the catalytic be- 
havior in n-butane oxidation on the fresh catalyst used 
by these authors,136 
it is necessary to distinguish be- 
tween tests at low conversion (lower than 10%) 
where 
the reducing power of the reagent mixture is higher and 
catalytic tests at high conversion (Figure 17). At low 
conversion, the catalysts with P:V ratio 0.95 and 1.01 
show the same activity, selectivity, and kinetic behav- 
ior.I3l However, at high conversion of n-butane (80%) 
the catalyst deficient in phosphorus and with the ob- 
served higher rate of vanadium oxidation forms pri- 
marily carbon oxides. The catalysts with more phos- 
phorus with respect to the stoichiometric ratio of 1.0 
are less active (Figure 17) and less selective already at 
low conversion,131 
but do not show the strong decline 
of maleic anhydride selectivity at the highest conver- 
sions. For these vanadyl pyrophosphate ~ a t a l y s t s , ~ ~ ~ J ~  
a content of phosphorus lower than required for stoi- 
chiometric P:V = 1.0 
principally influences the rate of 
consecutive oxidation of maleic anhydride, whereas for 
catalysts with a higher amount of P with respect to P:V 
= 1.0, 
the predominant effect is on the rate of formation 
of maleic anhydride. It is reasonable to correlate these 
catalytic effects with the redox properties of the cata- 
1 y ~ t . l ~ ~  
The strong increase of the rate of vanadium 
oxidation in the phosphorus-deficient catalyst leads to 
an enhancement of the rate of consecutive oxidation of 
maleic anhydride (effect 
on the selectivity), 
whereas the 
decreased rate of reduction of vanadium in the catalyst 
with higher P content than a stoichiometric one leads 
to the reduced rate of hydrocarbon depletion (effect on 
the activity). 
Zein El Deen and B a e r n ~ l ~ ~  
noted a similar effect. 
When PVO catalysts were treated in a cyclic fashion 
with pure O2 followed by butenes, the selectivity in 
maleic anhydride formation diminished as 
compared 
with steady-state behavior. Nakamura et al.47 
also 
suggested that some V5+ 
ions were necessary for maleic 
anhydride synthesis, but the optimum mean valence 
state of catalyst is close to four. Similar conclusions 
were presented recently by Wenig and Schrader41 
studying the effect of phosphorus on the kinetic be- 
havior of PVO catalysts in n-butane oxidation. They 
report catalyst phosphorus loading is a key parameter 
in determining catalyst selectivity and activity. An 
increase of P content in the 0.9-1.2 P:V atomic ratio 
decreases specific activity in n-butane depletion and 
Centi et al. 
maleic anhydride 
V (  I V I  
V ( V )  
4 
*adsorbed phase 
Figure 
19. General scheme for C4 
hy&ocarbon 
oxidation on VPO 
catalysts.lW 
401 a 
1 
conversion, 
!
+
 
time , min 
Figure 
20. (a) Maleic anhydride yields vs conversion at 300 
O
C
 
in n-butane oxidationss for different Catalysts with P V  
= 1
.
0
.
 
Feed: 0.6% n-butane, 12% 02. 
(b) Rate of VIv oxidation t
o
 Vv 
(in air at 400 
"C) for the same catalysts of (a).96 
increases the selectivity to maleic anhydride. However, 
these catalysts show an unusual low activation energy; 
approximately 100 "C 
is necessary in order to double 
the rate of n-butane depletion. The same selectivity, 
on the contrary, was reported by Buchanan and Sun- 
d a r e ~ a n l ~ ~  
in their kinetic study on two PVO catalysts 
with P:V = 1.0 and 1.1, respectively. The former cat- 
alyst was approximately twice as active as the P:V = 
1.1 catalyst. Pyatnitskaya et al.35 
also found a corre- 
lation in vanadium phosphorus oxides between the 
concentration of V4+ 
ions in the discharged catalysts 
and the activity in n-butane oxidation. It is worth 
noting that they also noted the presence of V3+ 
ions in 
the catalysts. Nakamura et al.47 also deduced the 
presence of V3+ 
ions in the discharged catalysts after 
the catalytic experiments on the basis of the broadening 
of the vanadyl EPR signal. 
Figure 19 
summarizes 
the relationship between redox 
properties of vanadyl pyrophosphate and catalytic be- 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C, Hydrocarbons 
havior in C4 hydrocarbon oxidation. The results of 
surface modifications induced by the interaction of C4 
hydrocarbons as well as the results of P:V ratio effect 
on redox properties and on selectivity/activity are in- 
terpreted on the basis of two different types of reaction 
in going from the alkane or alkene to maleic anhydride: 
a first step of oxidative dehydrogenation 
up to adsorbed 
butadiene and a second step of further oxidation of this 
intermediate. The first step is suggested to be con- 
trolled by the rate of Vw reduction, whereas the second 
step is controlled by the amount of Vv available. 
However, when the content of Vv is too high, the oxi- 
dation proceeds further to carbon oxides. 
These data suggest a strong relationship between 
selectivity to maleic anhydride at high conversion and 
rate of formation of vanadium(V). This is illustrated 
for catalysts with the same P:V ratio in Figure 20, which 
shows the rates of Vv formation (Figure 20b) and the 
corresponding maleic anhydride yields vs butane con- 
version (Figure 20a).% The different redox properties 
of the three catalysts (only crystalhe phase, the va- 
nadyl pyrophosphate) depend upon the preparation 
procedures.% At low conversion and similar rates of Vv 
formation the catalysts show approximately similar 
selectivity, but at high conversion, when the greatest 
disparity in rates of oxidation exists, the more oxidiz- 
able catalyst shows the highest rate of maleic anhydride 
decomposition. 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 
1 69 
localized surface lattice defects) is the active site for 
alkane activation according to Kung.@ M a t s ~ u r a l ~ ~  
and 
Szakacs et al.127 
also suggested 0- 
species as the active 
sites for abstraction of hydrogens from butane. Ac- 
cording to the latter authors,127 
these species do not 
form by direct oxygen interaction, 
but with the follow- 
ing mechanism: 
v5+ + 0 2 -  4 
v
4
+
 + 0- 
(8) 
V I  
I .  Mechanism of n-Butane Activation 
Kinetics data agree that the hydrocarbon activation 
is the first step in n-butane o ~ i d a t i o n . ~ ~ J ~ ~ J ~ ~ - ' ~ ~  
The 
question to be addressed is whether this activation and 
breaking of a C-H bond occurs by real charge separa- 
tion (H+ and RCH2- or H- and RCH2+) 
or occurs 
without charge separation. Kungs5 
discussed this con- 
cept on the basis of the heats of reaction (AHo) 
of the 
C-H bond dissociation process with and without charge 
separation. In the gas phase, due to the energy required 
for charge separation, the heterolytic process is unfa- 
vorable. The catalytic process, however, would require 
less energy because the hydrogen atom or proton would 
form O-H bonds with the surface oxygen and the hy- 
drocarbon intermediate is stabilized by surface inter- 
action. However, Kung5 
suggests that since the alkane 
is rather inert, the transition state of the activation step 
is reactant-like and the activation energy in an alkane 
series would parallel AHo values of the gas-phase pro- 
cess. Kung65 concluded that for saturated hydrocarbons 
the rate-determining step is the dissociation of the C-H 
bond in a manner similar to the production of hydro- 
carbon free radicals. Furthermore, he suggests that the 
step of C-H bond breaking in the alkane is thermody- 
namically favorable if the energy of oxygen-lattice in- 
teraction lost when the O-H bond is formed is weak. 
This would require a very reactive oxygen that is bound 
weakly to the solid for it to be thermodynamically fa- 
vorable. It is known from the literature that 0- 
and 0, 
species (one oxygen molecule may be activated by ac- 
cepting electrons from the solid or alternatively, 0- 
species may form by decomposition of N20) 
are very 
reactive in the oxidative dehydrogenation and activation 
of light alkane~.'~~-l~O 
In summary, highly reactive 
surface oxygen (weakly adsorbed oxygen and/or 
Activated oxygen species (O*) were indicated also by 
Ebner et aL71J61 
to be responsible for the butane acti- 
vation step. Oxygen chemisorption experiments suggest 
that much of the surface vanadium in (VO)2P207 
is 
available for oxygen chemisorption. Around 1 
oxygen 
molecule was adsorbed per 3 surface vanadiums. The 
adsorption was largely irreversible, which implies a 
strong bond to the surface vanadium. They suggest 
that the oxygen chemisorption occurs via a dissociative 
pathway on vanadium dimers, leading to a V5+-0* 
type 
surface species capable of activating the alkane. 
Multipulse TAP experiments161 
furthermore show that 
when the adsorbed oxygen species (designated 0*) 
was 
removed on the (VO)2P207 
surface by the reaction of 
furan to maleic anhydride, the catalyst was no longer 
able to activate butane. 
Weakly adsorbed and activated oxygen species are 
strongly electrophilic reactants, and their presence 
(determined, for example, by in situ work function 
measurements) 
was generally associated in the literature 
with total o x i d a t i ~ n . ~ ~ J ~ ~  
Furthermore, the higher se- 
lectivities in the absence of gas-phase oxygen obtained 
in n-butane conversion in a transport bed reactorz2 
(separate stages of catalyst interaction with hydro- 
carbon and oxygen) are explained on the basis of the 
absence in these conditions of surface-active species like 
0, and 0-. 
A second problem raised from the hypothesis of 
weakly adsorbed species as the active sites in butane 
dehydrogenation 
is the great selectivity of this reaction. 
Pepera et al.129 
studied the n-butane conversion to 
maleic anhydride on (V0)zP207 
using labeled com- 
pounds. Several interesting observations regarding the 
mechanism of n-butane activation are derived from this 
study: (i) The butane does not reversibly chemisorb 
with hydrogen exchange onto the surface of the vanadyl 
pyrophosphate 
during the oxidation reaction, but is only 
irreversibly adsorbed onto the surface. On the contrary, 
a reversible maleic anhydride adsorption does occur. (ii) 
The oxygen-equilibrated catalyst does not undergo ex- 
change reactions with the gas phase, indicating the ir- 
reversibility of the surface reoxidation step. (iii) Isotope 
effects observed in deuteriated butane studies strongly 
indicate that butane conversion both to maleic anhy- 
dride and to combustion products goes through the 
same rate-determining 
step. Selectivity is determined 
during the fast steps after the initial C-H bond acti- 
vation. (iv) The rate-determining step for the reaction 
of butane is the activation of a methylene carbon-hy- 
drogen bond. The magnitude of this isotope effect 
observed indicates nearly exclusive reaction with this 
path. Less than 5 %  of the butane reaction proceeds 
by methyl C-H 
activation. 
The highly reactive adsorbed and activated oxygen 
species proposed as active sites for the reaction (for 
example, 0-) 
would be expected to show selectivity for 
70 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 
lo+ 
Centi et al. 
2 
3 
4 
k& .cm3molec!s" 
Figure 21. C~rrelation'~~ 
between the rate constant of alkane 
depletion (KOx) 
at 573 K (first-order rate equation) and the rate 
constant (PH) 
at 298 K for the hypothetical reaction of simul- 
taneous 2 H abstraction from the alkane (calculated 
as 
a function 
of the nature of Rl, R2, 
R3, and R on the basis of the data and 
equations reported by Atkinsodb) according to reaction 13. 
Legend: (1) 
ethane, (2) propane, (3) n-butane, (4) n-pentane, (5) 
n-hexane, (6) n-heptane, (7) 2-methylbutane, 
and (8) 
cyclohexane. 
the C-H bonds only in a statistical sense.16o 
V(1V) may 
be, on the contrary, simply 
viewed as 
a transition-metal 
radical. With its d orbital based unpaired electron 
being much less reactive, it would be expected to dis- 
criminate between the methylene and stronger methyl 
C-H bonds. Pepera et al.,129 
therefore, conclude that 
V(1V) at the surface of vanadyl pyrophosphate may be 
the key to selective activation, acting in the homolytic 
cleavage of the methylene C-H bond of butane. 
Recent results by Centi and Trifirb105J63-165 
suggest 
a different hypothesis for the activation of butane. The 
energies for homolytic and heterolytic breaking of C-H 
bonds are different according to the specific nature of 
the alkane. For example, the probability of homolytic 
bond dissociation follows the order 
tertiary C-H > secondary C-H > primary C-H 
(9) 
Furthermore, if the rate-determining step is not only 
the abstraction of one hydrogen atom, but the contem- 
poraneous abstraction of two hydrogen atoms, further 
differences in the reactivities of alkane are expected. 
Centi and Trifiib165 
have compared 
the reactivity of the 
Cz-C7 alkane series on vanadyl pyrophosphate, trying 
to correlate the observed kinetic constants of hydro- 
carbon depletion with the kinetic constants derived 
from literature data" for the theoretical reaction of (i) 
simultaneous abstraction of two hydrogen atom radicals 
or (ii) 
the abstraction of only the first hydrogen. Figure 
21 shows the results1& 
obtained. Fitting of the data of 
reactivity is possible only on the basis of the hypothesis 
that the rate-determining step is the contemporaneous 
removal of both of the two methylene hydrogens from 
the carbon atoms in the 2- and 3-positions of the n- 
butane molecule. 
However, the rate of n-butane depletion is structure 
sensitive26 
and sensibly depends upon the method of 
preparation of vanadyl pyrophosphate. The specific 
centers for the selective activation of the alkane are 
present in a very different amount depending on the 
55 
45 
35 
25 
15 
24. 
( b )  'VO)2P20, 
d(2) 
- 
55 
45 
35 
25 
229 
Figure 22. X-ray diffraction patternsea of vanadyl hydrogen 
phosphate (a) and of vanadyl pyrophosphate (b) 
for catalysts 
with 
P:V 
= 1.0 from different types of preparations. 
MEDIUM-STRONG' 
P
,
 
I p\ 
VERY-STRONG 
* 
b) 
/ P\ 
'LEWIS ACID SITES 
F
i
g
u
r
e
 
23. Model of Lewis acid sites" in vanadyl pyrophosphate 
with different degrees of disorder in the stacking fold of (020) 
planes: (a) medium-strong Lewis acid sites, well crystalline 
structure; (b) very strong Lewis acid sites, disordered crystalline 
structure. 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C, Hydrocarbons 
r(b--.-77 
12300 
b
y
 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 71 
Me I 
? H A C H ,  
Me 
H 
H' 
2400 
+OO 
2
4
k
-
-
O
d
2
0
0
 
cm.l 
cm-' 
Figure 24. Fourier transform infrared spectra of acetonitrile 
adsorptionlM and different evacuation treatments on catalysts 
presenting different degrees of structural disorder: (a) well 
crystalline structure; (b) high disorder in the stacking 
fold of (020) 
planes of vanadyl pyrophosphate. a(1) and b( 
l), 
acetonitrile 
adsorbed at room temperature; a(2) and b(2), subsequent evac- 
uation at room temperature; b(3) evacuation at 390 K for 10 min, 
b(4) evacuation at 430 K for 10 min. Acetonitrile gives coordi- 
nation adducts with exposed coordinatively unsaturated cations 
with formation of two bands (in this region) due to (i) Fermi 
resonance between the C=N stretching ( Y C H )  and (ii) the com- 
bination of symmetric CH3 
deformation 
and C
-
C
 stretching 
+ I&. 
On (b) catalyst the two bands of equal intensities at 396 
K (2328 and 2300 cm-') were assigned to coordinatively bonded 
acetonitrile on very strong Lewis sites. On (a) catalyst the two 
bands at 2280 and 2300 cm-' were attributed to coordinatively 
bonded acetonitrile on medium-strong Lewis sites. 
mode of preparation. Busca et al.96 
have shown that 
in the vanadyl pyrophosphate it is possible to introduce 
structural defects (in particular, disorder in the stacking 
fold of (020) planes) modifying the catalyst precursor 
phase (hemihydrated 
vanadyl hydrogen phosphate) due 
to the topotacticity of the transformation. This is 
clearly shown, 
for example, in the comparison of X-ray 
diffraction patterns of different VOHP04.0.5Hz0 
and 
of corresponding (V0)zPz07.96 The same strong 
broadening 
of the reflections of topologically equivalent 
(010) and (020) planes is shown% 
(Figure 22). Due to 
the topotactic transformation that occurs without the 
breaking of V-0-P connections and due to the higher 
electronegativity of P with respect to V, the presence 
of defects in the structure of vanadyl pyrophosphate 
is reflected on the surface in an enhancement of Lewis 
acidity of surface unsaturated vanadium ions (Figure 
23).lo5 Acetonitrile adsorption followed by FT-IR 
spectroscopy (Figure 24)'63J64 
has been used to char- 
acterize the presence of different Lewis acid sites 
(medium strong and very strong) and to correlate their 
presence on the surface with the structural and catalytic 
properties of vanadyl pyrophosphate.lmJM 
Strong-acid 
sites on (VO)zPz07 
were observed also by Puttock and 
R o ~ h e s t e r l ~ ~ J ~  
with infrared spectroscopy and by Ai42 
with chemical tests. The presence of defects in the 
vanadyl pyrophosphate and their role in the rate of 
n-butane depletion were recently reported by Johnson 
et al.,"l who quantitatively correlated the amount of 
defects (determined with magnetic susceptibility mea- 
surements) and the rate of butane depletion. 
We may summarize all these observations in the 
following model: the presence of defects in the crys- 
talline structure creates strain in the V-0-P bonds and 
would create a surface-activated reactive couple 
[Vb+ 
...Ob- + 
p] 
(10) 
This reactive couple was proposed by Centi and 
b 
Figure 25. Proposed m e ~ h a n i s m ' ~ J ~ ~  
of n-butane activation on 
vanadyl pyrophosphate catalysts: (a) detail of the concerted 
mechanism of 2 H abstraction; (b) redox cycle involved in the 
mechanism of activation. 
Trifirb165 
as being responsible for the concerted mech- 
anism of the removal of two hydrogen atoms, according 
to the scheme reported in Figure 25a. Figure 25b shows 
the redox cycle proposed for this mechanism of acti- 
vation of n-butane.'05 The model is based on the idea 
that VIv-oxygen reactive couples are the active sites of 
butane dehydrogenation. 
Finally, Vv ions, on the contrary, are proposed by 
Hodnett and D e l m ~ n ~ ~ ~  
on the basis of pulse reactor 
experiments showing high selectivities even in the ab- 
sence of gaseous oxygen. Volta et al.'17 
indicate that 
strong-acid centers are responsible for an H- 
abstraction 
from butane, suggesting that these acid centers are V5+ 
ions in an amorphous surface phase with a high density 
of PO4 
tetrahedra around the vanadium octahedra. An 
increase of local surface phosphorus concentration in- 
creases the acidity of vanadium. 
In conclusion, there are still several questions open 
in the literature about the nature and mechanism of the 
reaction of n-butane activation, notwithstanding the 
recent effort in this direction. This is an exciting field 
of research, allowing the possibility of the discovery of 
new pathways of selective activation of alkanes (a very 
open problem) and new reactions for functionalization 
of these poorly reactive hydrocarbons. Fundamental 
research on this aspect is necessary, in particular to 
solve the principal problem, whether the adsorbed ac- 
tivated oxygen species or the catalyst surface is the 
active species for the selective abstraction of hydrogen 
from the paraffinic C-H bond. 
VIII. Role of Adsorbed and Lafflce Oxygen 
Species 
Steady-state and transient experiments (section 1
1
1
)
 
have shown that the reaction from n-butane to maleic 
anhydride can be expressed in a stepwise manner, with 
intermediate formation of butenes, butadiene, and fu- 
ran. Different reaction types are involved in these steps, 
Le., activation of the alkane hydrocarbon, allylic dehy- 
drogenation, 1,4-oxygen insertion on conjugated di- 
72 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 
Centi et al. 
olefins, 
and electrophilic oxidation of the furan ring.@JM 
It seems probable that different active sites and types 
of oxygen species are implicated in this polyfunctional 
behavior of the vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst. In 
order to clarify this aspect, in this section we analyze 
some aspects of the mechanisms of these single steps 
and the types of oxygen species that may be involved. 
Three types of lattice oxygen species with different 
reactivities are present at the surface of vanadium 
phosphorus oxides (Figure 1): 
I 
i i i  
P 
I1 
The participation of lattice oxygen is a general 
characteristic of metal oxide catalyzed reactions in se- 
lective hydrocarbon oxidation.169 
Over the past years 
it has been identified170J71 
for bismuth molybdate 
catalysts that different lattice oxygens are involved in 
the (i) a-H abstraction and (ii) the oxygen insertion 
mechanisms for propylene transformation to acrolein. 
The a-H abstraction occurs by oxide ions bridging 
bismuth and molybdenum atoms, whereas the oxygen 
insertion into the allylic intermediate originates from 
oxide ions associated only with m01ybdenum.l~~ 
Sim- 
ilarly, different lattice oxide ions in vanadium phos- 
phorus oxide may be necessary to achieve the poly- 
functional behavior of these  catalyst^.^^ 
On the other hand, a series of equilibria with oxygen 
in the gas phase are established in which different 
species of adsorbed oxygen may form, gradually en- 
riched with electrons by interaction with surface ions 
until the state of 02-(lattice oxygen) is attained.157J72 
Oz(gas) 
+ 
Op(ads) 
202-(lattice) (12) 
For example, the 02- 
species is formed by interaction 
of the precursor 02(ads) 
with V4+ 
ions on the surface, 
donation of the electron being made from either the dJi, 
or the d,, orbitals of the vanadium ion to an anti- 
bonding orbital of the oxygen atom. These are sym- 
metry-allowed reactions. 
In addition, these activated oxygen species may have 
different geometries and electronic structures, with the 
molecular axis being parallel or vertical to the inter- 
face.63 This weakly bonded V4+-O; linear oxygen 
species was suggested to be active in the case of benzene 
conversion to maleic anhydride on vanadium-based 
catalysts.173 
In the process of transformation from O2 
to 202-, 
the characteristics of the oxygen species change 
from electrophilic (02-) 
to the nucleophilic (02-) 
prop- 
erties of lattice oxygen. Furthermore, in going from the 
alkane to maleic anhydride through the alkenes, a 
change of the possible point of attack of the oxygen 
species on the organic molecule is likely. 
The first attempt to rationalize the problem of types 
of oxygen species involved in the mechanism of C4 
al- 
kene transformation to maleic anhydride was reported 
by Weiss et 
Vanadium-oxygen double bonds 
(V=O) were suggested to be the active sites both (i) in 
the oxydehydrogenation step from butenes to butadiene 
and (ii) in the consecutive steps of oxygen insertion to 
maleic anhydride. The first step involves a homolytic 
02-(ads) + 
20-(ads) 
SCHEME 1
1
.
 Reaction Pattern Proposed by Weiss et al.174 
for Butene Conversion to Maleic Anhydride 
a 
(C-H) dissociation of the adsorbed olefin and formation 
of the allyl radical coordinated to a metallic transition 
ion as 
a surface 7r-allyl complex. The allyl carbocation 
obtained can form the diene by loss of a proton through 
reaction with a nucleophilic agent (like an anion of the 
lattice). The allyl "ester" that forms can undergo a 
rapid reversible rearrangement in which each end of the 
carbon of the skeleton is alternatively bonded to the 
lattice oxygen. This lattice oxygen possesses a weak 
electrophilic reactivity. On the contrary, an electro- 
philic oxygen must be involved in the attack on the 
diene. The proposed mechanism is reported in Scheme 
2a. 
The product of attack on the diene can occur 
according 
to two selective pathways: (a) 1,Ccyclization 
to 2,5-dihydrofuran, which is easily dehydrogenated to 
furan; (b) deprotonization of the allyl carbocation to a 
dienolate structure. Heterocyclization 
of this structure 
by a new intramolecular electrophilic attack leads to 
furan. The second path, however, can also form cro- 
tonaldehyde by hydration and retroaldolization, 
leading 
to a possible reduction in selectivity. An analogous 
mechanism may be assumed for the further oxidation 
to maleic anhydride, i.e., electrophilic attack, de- 
protonization, etc. (Scheme 2b). 
The mechanism proposed by Weiss et al.174 
is only 
speculative, but recently Centi and Trifir~?'~~ 
reported 
experimental evidence concerning this mechanism. 
These authors considered V5+=0 as sites of oxygen 
insertion and V4+=0 or bridged V4+-0-P 
as 
sites of 
allylic H abstraction. Figure 26 shows that by con- 
trolling the availability of oxygen it is possible to 
maximize the formation of furan from butadiene, ob- 
taining very high selectivities to furan. Assuming a 
first-order rate equation for both the reaction from 
butadiene to furan and the reaction from furan to 
maleic anhydride and equal rate constants, the maxi- 
mum yield of furan possible in a PFR reactor is around 
30% 
.137 This value is very close to the maximum yield 
of furan obtained on PVO c a t a l y ~ t s . ~ ~ ~ J ~ ~  
This suggests 
that the reactivity of butadiene to furan and of furan 
to maleic anhydride is very similar. Figure 27 reports 
the comparison of the two reagents under the same 
conditions and the reactivity of but-1-ene in oxidative 
dehydrogenation (formation of butadiene) and of 2,5- 
dihydrofuran (DHF) in allylic dehydrogenation to fu- 
ran. It is shown that the reactions of allylic dehydro- 
genation occur at very low temperatures, whereas the 
reactions of oxygen insertion on both butadiene and 
furan occur at higher temperatures. It should be noted 
that the reactions occur in the same range of temper- 
atures and with similar selectivities to maleic anhydride 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C, Hydrocarbons 
I 
100 
0 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 73 
2 
3 
40 
' O2 
/Bu tad 
i 
ene 
Figure 26. Effect of 02/butadiene ratio at 330 O
C
 
in butadiene 
oxidation:176 
(0) 
furan yield; (0) 
maleic anhydride yield; (L) furan 
selectivity. Feed: 0.8% butadiene. 
// 
1-ET-BTD 
,*,A 
250 
300 
temperature.C 
Figure 27. 
Comparison of reactivity of vanadyl pyro- 
p h ~ s p h a t e ' ~ J ~ ~  
in reaction 
of oxygen insertion (0, 
A) and allylic 
dehydrogenation (0, 
w): (0) 
furan conversion; (A) butadiene 
conversion; 
(m) but-1-ene conversion 
to 
butadiene; 
(0) 
dihydro- 
furan conversion to 
furan. Feed: 0.6% 
hydrocarbon, 
12% 
oxygen. 
(50+30%). This 
suggests that the nature of the reaction 
and of the active sites involved in the two reactions is 
very similar. On the other hand, due to the very high 
reactivity, the 2,5-dihydrofuran is quickly transformed 
to furan, which prevents its eventual detection as 
an 
intermediate of the reaction. 
Further evidence is r e p ~ r t e d ' ~ ~ J ~ ~  
in studies of the 
butadiene interaction with V5+=0 double bonds on a 
PVO catalyst with P:V = 1.0 using Fourier transform 
infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR). The formation of ad- 
sorbed products (with the most intense band centered 
near 1600 cm-l) is observed177 
with simultaneous dis- 
appearance of a weak band at 2030 cm-' attributed to 
the first overtone of vv+,.178 
The interpretation of this 
effect (Scheme 3) is in agreement with the first step 
proposed by Weiss et al.174 
Different indications, however, derive from the 
time-resolved experiments performed in the TAP re- 
a ~ t o r . ~ l J ~ l  
Special experiments were designed in order 
to detect the eventual formation of DHF. With DHF 
as 
the reactant in TAP experiments, at the point where 
maleic anhydride no longer can be made, DHF con- 
version drops off and only the formation of furan from 
DHF at about 3040% 
conversion is detected. If the 
feed is switched at this point to butene or butadiene, 
only oxidative dehydrogenation from butene to buta- 
diene and the formation of furan from butadiene are 
seen. No DHF is detected. Thus DHF is not com- 
SCHEME 
111. Reaction Scheme Proposed by Busca et ~
1
.
l
~
~
 
in the Interaction of Butadiene with the VK+=O Double 
Bond" 
'This adsorbed species is stable and desorbs as crotonaldehyde 
only at temperatures about 100 O C  higher than the reaction tem- 
perature. 
pletely reacting on this surface, and yet it is not seen 
from these other reactants. 
The alternative stepwise mechanism of double-H 
removal from 1,Cbutadiene with subsequent nucleo- 
philic 0 
insertion seems also very unfavorable, due to 
the fact that the H atoms in the 2,3-positions of buta- 
diene are more reactive. TAP experiments?l however, 
agree with steady-state and pulse reactor tests in the 
absence of 02,136J75 
indicating lattice oxygen is involved 
in this step. Thus, the possible electrophilic addition 
of the activated oxygen molecule to form the 1,4-mo- 
lecular oxygen adduct that decomposes to furan and 
water seems unlikely. ExperimentslG1 
pulsing "02 
and 
butene or butadiene and monitoring the furan-l80 
and 
furan-180 
as a function of pulse number indicate that 
at the start of the pulsing, the initial furan formed with 
both hydrocarbons 
contained only l60. 
With continued 
pulsing the furan-160 
yield dropped and the furan-180 
yield increased. An estimate of the amount of oxygen 
inserted from the catalyst in forming furan-l60 
indicates 
subsurface lattice oxygen does not participate. 
Resuming, no clear indications are present in the 
literature on the step of the mechanism from butadiene 
to furan. It is worthy of note that the stability of the 
intermediate reported in Scheme 3 is very high and it 
desorbs under vacuum only at very high tempera- 
tures.lR This suggests that it cannot desorb as 
the DHF 
intermediate, but remains strongly bound to the surface 
up to final formation of furan (route b of Scheme 2a), 
which may desorb as an intermediate in the vacuum 
conditions of TAP experiments. All the experimental 
evidence agree that in the butadiene transformation to 
furan surface lattice oxygen is involved and the con- 
secutive elementary reactions occur on intermediates 
strongly interacting with the catalyst surface. This 
interaction prevents possible de~orpti0n.l~~ 
Discordances are present in the literature about the 
consecutive step from furan to maleic anhydride. The 
data of Centi and Trifirb139J75 
suggest that the same 
kind of oxygen species is involved in the two reactions 
and thus lattice oxygen also is used in the transforma- 
tion of furan to maleic anhydride. Pulse reactor 
tests39~40~116~120~12~1~~1~ 
clearly indicate that lattice oxygen 
may be sufficient for the synthesis of maleic anhydride 
from both butenes and butane. Results of Morselli et 
al.,132 
furthermore, suggest that on a pure vanadyl py- 
rophosphate phase only oxidative dehydrogenation 
occurs, whereas in the presence of Vv the transforma- 
tion to maleic anhydride even in the absence of O2 
may 
occur. 
TAP experiments, however, suggest the different 
idea71J61 
that while butene and butadiene are readily 
converted to furan on a partially oxidized surface, furan 
is not readily converted to maleic anhydride. In a series 
of multipulse experiments in which anaerobic feeds of 
74 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 
Centi et al. 
2 
f 
**-+-.+- 
- 
I - 
3 
6 
9 
'2 
15 
18 
21 
24 
2' 
3'0 
I 
Figure 28. Multipulse format (40 pulses s-l) data over (VO)2P207 
at 420 "C under anaerobic conditions71 
showing (a) nialeic an- 
hydride proddction from furan and (b) furan production from 
cis-but-2-ene. 
butene, butadiene, or furan were pulsed over preoxi- 
dized equilibrated (V0)2P207 
catalyst, the production 
of maleic anhydride from the furan and furan from 
olefins was monitored. Figure 28a shows how the maleic 
anhydride yield rapidly decreases as furan is pulsed 
through the reactor. The valve pulse rate is 40 pulses 
s-l and within 2 s or 80 pulses the maleic anhydride 
yield is essentially zero. The furan yield (Figure 28b) 
obtained from pulsing butene into the same catalyst 
under identical conditions is initially zero, but rises to 
a maximum and then continues at that level for the 
duration of the pulsing. If the maleic anhydride yield 
is followed during butene pulsing, it closely resembles 
that observed during furan addition. Thus, under 
anaerobic conditions the oxygen which can readily ox- 
idize furan is more rapidly depleted than the oxygen 
available to form furan from butene. Importantly, it 
was further observed that a catalyst which had (O*) 
removed by the reaction of furan to maleic anhydride 
was no longer able to activate butane. It is also worth 
noting that y-butyrolactone formation was never de- 
tected during C4 olefin and furan oxidation in TAP 
transient experiments. This suggests that oxygen in- 
sertion on, the 2,5-positions of furan occurs simultane- 
ously. The multipulse experiments performed in the 
TAP reactor clearly indicate that the PVO catalyst 
functions with two types of oxygen. The first type is 
suggested to be the activated species (O*) 
formed by 
strong chemisorption of the electrophilic dioxygen 
molecule. This species is responsible for furan oxidation 
and butane activation. It is present in relatively low 
concentrations. The second type of oxygen is suggested 
4 
I ' 1  
I
'
 oi 
0 3  
0'5 
0'7 
0 9  
Figure 29. Double-pulse data'l showing (a) the C 0 2  
production 
and (b) the maleic anhydride production when oxygen and furan 
are injected into the microreactor at different times. The (V- 
0)2P207 
surface had been equilibrated with 50 pulses of oxygen 
and furan before those data were collected. 
I 
J 
T J L  z-c 
to be surface lattice oxygen (OsL). It is responsible for 
the allylic oxydehydrogenation of olefins and for oxygen 
insertion with ring closure to form furan. The TAP 
results suggest that the selectivity of the butane oxi- 
dation reaction is influenced by the concentration of 
these species at the initial butane adsorption site. If 
insufficient oxygen is present then a partially oxidized 
species such as butene may desorb from the initial site 
and undergo oxidation at another site. This type of 
stepwise process would be less selective since butene is 
a less selective reactant than butane. 
Nonselective reactions lead to the production of 
carbon oxides and to the formation of organic residues 
adsorbed on the catalyst surface. Double-pulse TAP 
experiments reveal a number of interesting aspects of 
this process. In a double-pulse experiment two reac- 
tants are pulsed into the reactor from different high- 
speed valves. The valves are synchronized, but are fired 
at different times. The interval between valve pulses 
can be varied from 0.1 I.LS to 1 
s. The double-pulse 
results presented in Figures 29 and 30 were obtained 
on preoxidized base stock using oxygen and furan as 
the 
reactant feeds. Each TAP curve consists of 50 sets of 
pulses averaged together. The results reflect the state 
of the surface after it has been exposed to furan. On 
the first oxygen pulse no product was observed. After 
that both COz and maleic anhydride were observed 
during the oxygen pulse. The feeds were adjusted so 
that the 0xygen:furan ratio was 8:l. Figure 29a shows 
the C02 
formation when the oxygen and furan pulses 
were separated by 400 ms. Two COz peaks can be ob- 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C, Hydrocarbons 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, 
No. 1 75 
SCHEME 
IV. Oxygen Species Involved in the Reaction 
Pattern of n 
-Butane Oxidation as Deduced on the Basis of 
TAP  experiment^?^ 
MALEIC ANHYDRIDE REACTION NETWORK 
I 
4
0
0
 
' 4b 
T M E  (MILLISEC.) 
Figure 30. C~mparison~~ 
of the maleic anhydride yield from 
double-pulse 
experiments during the furan injection period: (a) 
Oz/furan 
pulse separation was 0.1 ms; (b) Oz/furan 
pulse sepa- 
ration was 600 ms. The same vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst 
w
a
s
 
used in both experiments 
and 
the oxygen:furan 
ratio was 81 
in both cases. 
served. The larger one coincides with the oxygen pulse 
and the other with the furan pulse. The COz data 
should be compared with the maleic anhydride data 
displayed in Figure 29b. The oxygen and furan pulses 
were separated by 600 ms. In this case the highest 
maleic anhydride yield coincides with the furan pulse 
and is about 50 times greater than that produced when 
oxygen is introduced. Moreover, if the order of the feed 
pulses is reversed and the interval between the two 
pulses is decreased, the size of the maleic anhydride 
pulse coinciding with the oxygen injection does not 
increase appreciably. These results indicate that the 
maleic precursor formed in the furan reaction has a 
relatively short lifetime. They also suggest that the 
reaction sequence is oxygen activation followed by furan 
oxidation and not vice versa. In addition, they show 
that even on a highly oxidized surface under differential 
conditions a portion of the furan oxidation is nonse- 
lective. In contrast, the size of the maleic anhydride 
peak obtained coinciding with the furan injection in a 
double-pulse experiment is dependent on the length of 
the interval between the oxygen and furan pulses. This 
is illustrated in Figure 30. Curve A is the maleic an- 
hydride formation when the interval is 0.1 ms and curve 
B is the yield when the interval is 600 ms. In each case 
only the maleic anhydride peak which coincides with 
the furan injection is displayed. The reaction conditions 
for both curves were identical. These results show that 
the maleic anhydride yield was significantly smaller 
when the interval between the pulses was 600 ms. This 
indicates that other reaction channels were competing 
with furan for the activated oxygen. It is important to 
note that the maleic anhydride yield did not continu- 
ously decrease as the interval between the pulses was 
extended beyond 600 ms. This suggests an appreciable 
lifetime for one form of (O*) which is selective in maleic 
anhydride synthesis. Enhanced maleic yield upon de- 
creasing pulse separation suggests a second selective 
oxygen (O*) 
form which is short-lived. Double-pulse 
TAP experimentP pulsing a mixture of '*O/butene 
through an equilibrated (VO)2P207 
catalyst and mon- 
itoring the COz 
temporal curves of the various isotopes 
suggest that the short-lived 
form of chemisorbed oxygen 
is also involved in the direct reaction with hydrocarbon 
to form COP. 
However, lattice oxygen plays a significant 
role in producing C02 
by a much slower process. It also 
was suggested from the TAP experiments71 
that oxygen 
surface mobility is very high, although it seems likely 
that movement of oxygen is primarily through the 
surface lattice. The TAP results are summarized in 
Scheme 4
.
 
The role of adsorbed oxygen was investigated also by 
infrared s p e c t r o ~ c o p y . ~ ~ J ~ ~ J ~ ~ J ~  
Puttock and Roches- 
t e P 9  
studying the adsorption of C, hydrocarbons on 
the surface of vanadyl pyrophosphate found the for- 
mation of an adsorbed species under anaerobic condi- 
tions interacting with coordinatively unsaturated ex- 
posed vanadium cations. This species transforms to 
adsorbed maleic anhydride in the presence of gaseous 
oxygen. Similar observations with a different inter- 
pretation of the nature of the intermediate are reported 
by Busca et al.177 
for both butane and butadiene. These 
data agree with the TAP observations. It is worthy of 
note that recent quantitative EPR studies on PVO 
catalystslS1 
have shown that under the usual vacuum 
pretreatment conditions (around 300-400 "C at 
Torr), the fresh vanadyl pyrophosphate reduces, form- 
ing V+ 
that in the presence of oxygen rapidly reoxidizes 
even at room temperature. This suggests that under 
vacuum conditions the surface of fresh PVO catalyst 
is strongly reduced, as confirmed from UV-vis diffuse 
reflectance spectra. The admission of O
i
 
thus causes 
a rapid reoxidation to V4+ and V5+. However, in the 
TAP experiments it was found that allowing a preoxi- 
dized catalyst to sit 16 
h under vacuum overnight at 420 
"C 
did not result in a significant decrease in yield of 
maleic anhydride from furan. The long-lived chemi- 
sorbed oxygen, therefore, must not be easily removed 
from the surface of an equilibrated (VO)2P207 
catalyst. 
Summarizing, the discordances found in the literature 
about the nature of the active species in the synthesis 
of maleic anhydride may be interpreted in light of what 
we concluded about the different kinetic behaviors of 
fresh and equilibrated catalysts. In the fresh catalysts 
lattice oxygen is very easily lost due to defects in the 
structure. This oxygen can be removed by simple 
evacuation. This explains why direct oxidization of the 
hydrocarbon to maleic anhydride can occur even in the 
absence of gaseous oxygen on a fresh PVO catalyst. 
With an equilibrated catalyst, lattice oxygen is not as 
labile and can perform only reactions of allylic oxy- 
dehydrogenations and of oxygen insertion with ring 
closure to form furan. In order to synthesize maleic 
anhydride or to activate the paraffin in an equilibrated 
catalyst, it is necessary to have gaseous oxygen inter- 
acting with the vanadyl pyrophosphate surface to form 
a long-lived oxidized surface vanadium oxo species. It 
is very probable that this species would correspond to 
an intermediate situation between simple activated 
76 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 
1 
adsorbed oxygen like 02- 
or 0- 
species and lattice ox- 
ygen. Recent TAP results71 
suggest also that both this 
long-lived adsorbed oxygen species and lattice V5+ 
species are selective in maleic anhydride synthesis, but 
the adsorbed oxygen species reacts faster. In conclu- 
sion, it is clear that despite the complexity of this re- 
action, some advances 
have been made to single out the 
nature of the oxygen species involved in the different 
steps and in outlining the working state of catalyst. 
Substantial differences with respect to other reactions 
of selective oxidation, such as propylene to acrolein, 
have been suggested, in particular the role of electro- 
philic oxygen species in some steps of the mechanism. 
However, a number of contradictory aspects must be 
still solved for a more precise understanding of the 
individual steps in the complex reaction network, in 
particular regarding the nature of active oxygen species 
involved in the transformation of butadiene to maleic 
anhydride. 
Centi et al. 
assigned to 
surface carbonate, whereas it was attributed 
by Puttock and Rochester179 
to a surface carboxylate. 
A similar spectrum of adsorbed 
species was found in the 
interaction of furan with the catalyst. The primary 
interaction between furan and the (VO)zPz07 
was sug- 
gested to involve coordination between the oxygen at- 
oms of associatively adsorbed furan molecules and co- 
ordinatively unsaturated exposed vanadium cations 
with Lewis acid properties. Furan showed slight oxi- 
dation to maleic anhydride in the absence of oxygen, 
but the presence of oxygen promoted maleic anhydride 
formation. Maleic anhydride was primarily nondisso- 
ciatively adsorbed on (VO)$z07, but two further bands 
at 1560 
and 1450 cm-', attributed to carboxylate anions, 
suggested a partial oxidation of the adsorbed maleic 
anhydride. 
Wenig and Schrader4' studied with infrared spec- 
troscopy the n-butane interaction with PVO catalysts 
with variable P:V atomic 
ratio (0.9, 1.0, 
and 1.1). These 
authors used an in situ FT-IR cell. Interaction of n- 
butane at temperatures higher than 300 "C led to the 
appearance of typical stretching frequencies of the 
carbonyl group of maleic anhydride (bands at 1179 and 
1848 cm-l, u, and vBp, respectively) and supposed vm 
of maleic acid (1725 cm-l). Intensities of these bands 
increased as a function of the time in the in situ ex- 
periments. At lower temperatures (200 "C) a weak 
band (2979 cm-') was attributed to Y - C H ~  of an ad- 
sorbed olefinic species. In addition, at higher temper- 
atures (400 "C) for catalysts with P:V = 1.0 and 1.1, 
further bands at 3010 and a 1570 
cm-' were assigned 
to vCH 
and v c 4  of an adsorbed cyclobutene species 
or a a-allyl surface complex. In addition, infrared bands 
of adsorbed carbon oxides, water, and n-butane were 
detected. In conclusion, these authors41 
presented ev- 
idence for the presence of reactant (n-butane), 
partially 
oxidized product (maleic anhydride), combustion 
products (CO, COz, 
HzO), 
and reactive surface species 
(maleic acid and olefins) on the vanadyl pyrophosphate. 
All the spectra reported by these authors were poorly 
resolved and lacking in quantitative data on the in- 
tensities of the bands. It is thus very difficult to make 
a comparison of these infrared results, even if qualita- 
tive general aspects of the spectra seem comparable. 
Interpretation of the nature of these adsorbed species 
is very different; sometimes unreliable assignment of 
the bands was made, and no support experiments to aid 
in the interpretation, as for example with labeled 
molecules, are given. More rigorous experiments are 
necessary in order to discern the nature of adsorbed 
species present on the surface and their relationship 
with the mechanism of reaction. It should be also 
stated that the Wenig and Schrader41 
observation of 
increased intensities of these bands a
s
 
a function of time 
on stream during in situ experiments does not support 
their assignment to reactive surface intermediates. 
Turnover number of these species must be high, making 
their surface concentration independent of time on 
stream, at least on the time scale (1-4 h) they report. 
The formation of strongly adsorbed species was de- 
tected in pulse reactor tests127,129.131.136.177 
from the loss 
of carbon balance and in the TAP transient experi- 
m e n t ~ . ~ ~ * ~ ~ ~  
In particular, in the pulse redox studieslZ9 
it was observed that on the surface of vanadyl pyro- 
phosphate during n-butane conversion under anaerobic 
conditions, strongly adsorbed species form that do not 
I X .  Nature and Mobility of Adsorbed Species 
Among the other themes on the mechanism of n-bu- 
tane oxidation, this has been investigated in less detail. 
The first attempt to study the nature of the adsorbed 
species using infrared spectroscopy was reported by 
Rozhkova et al.180 These authors investigated the 
chemisorption at 150 "C of butenes on a supported 
PVO catalyst (P:V = 1.0). Reversible chemisorption 
was characterized by the C=C bond forming a a com- 
plex and a weakening of the C-H bonds of the methyl 
group. The intensities of these effects depend on the 
surface state of the PVO catalyst. A prereduction 
treatment in a butene atmosphere at 400 
"C and sub- 
sequent evacuation increase the effect on the methyl 
group, decreasing that on the C=C double bond. 
Weakening of the C-H bond in the methyl group was 
considered a necessary stage for their oxidation with 
initial formation of a butenyl radical. Rozhkova et al.lso 
also observed that but-l-ene isomerizes easily to but- 
2-ene due to surface Bransted sites (P-OH). Irrevers- 
ible chemisorption, characterized by a band near 1600 
cm-l, was interpreted as the formation of a surface 
carbonate or oxalate structure coordinated to the cat- 
alyst surface atoms; these complexes are products of 
destructive transformation of butenes and are a source 
of formation of carbon oxides. 
A more recent infrared study of the adsorption of 
butane, but-l-ene, buta-1,3-diene, furan, and maleic 
anhydride on the surface of anhydrous vanadyl pyro- 
phosphate was reported by Puttock and R0che~ter.l~~ 
Contact between butane vapor and (VO)zP207 
at tem- 
peratures up to 450 "C did not give rise to infrared 
bands due to adsorbed species. But-l-ene, on the con- 
trary, gave rise to the formation of adsorbed species by 
contact at room temperature. Higher temperatures (ZOO 
"C) catalyzed the transformation of but-l-ene to but- 
2-enes, confirming the high surface acidity of these 
~ a t a l y s t s . ~ ~ ~ J ~ J ~ ~ J @  
After removal of the gas 
phase an 
adsorbed species, characterized by a strong band near 
1600 cm-' and bands in the 2800-3000-~m-~ 
region, was 
observed. The latter bands, ascribed to saturated hy- 
drocarbon groups, disappeared at higher temperatures 
(350 "C), whereas the band near 1600 cm-l remained. 
This band was also observed by Rozhkova et a1." and 
M
a
l
e
i
c
 AnhydrMe Synthesis from C, Hydrocarbons 
'/ 
0
;
 
100 
200 
tlme on 
stream.mln 
Figure 
31. Effect of time on stream" on the rate constant of 
n-butane depletion 
at 300 O C  
(A) 
and on the selectivity 
t
o
 
maleic 
anhydride (A). The figure reports also the amount of uoton- 
aldehyde found in parallel experiments during high-temperature 
thermal desorption ('stopped-flow desorption" 
experiments"') 
for a vanadyl pyrophosphate 
catalyst conditioned 
at 300 O C  for 
different times on stream (flow of 1% n-butene, 12% 0
,
.
 
87% 
He). 
desorb at the reaction temperature (400 O C ) .  Sending 
pulses of pure O,, 
in fact, the formation of carbon ox- 
ides, was observed, and the amount shows a maximum 
as a function of the number of pulses. l
8
0
 
pulse tests 
suggest that these strongly adsorbed species are sig- 
nificantly oxidized and that the combustion of this 
material is preceded by the reoxidation of the catalyst 
surface. A significant implication of these results is that 
the migrationfexchange of the oxygen-containing 
species in the surface layer is faster than the oxidation 
of these adsorbed species. 
Similar conclusions 
may be obtained on the basis of 
TAP transient experiments using multipulse experi- 
ments,71J61 
which also suggest that oxygen mobility of 
the surface top layer is very high, and the mobility of 
bulk oxygen is very low. 
More precise information about the nature of these 
strongly adsorbed species in n-butane oxidation under 
steady-state conditions and a discussion of their im- 
plication in the catalytic behavior were presented by 
Busca et al."' 
These authors applied a different tech- 
nique in order to characterize the nature of these 
products using 'stopped-flow desorption" experiments. 
This technique consists of the quantitative determina- 
tion of the nature of the products of thermal desorption 
from a catalyst surface after switching 
from steady-state 
conditions (flow of butane/air at around 300 "C) 
to 
those for desorption in deoxygenated anhydrous helium 
flow. Weakly bonded surface species were removed 
from the catalyst surface by flushing with helium. The 
more relevant aspect observed with this technique was 
the determination of high amounts of crotonaldehyde 
in the products of desorption, together with the pres- 
ence of C, olefms and maleic anhydride. The latter two 
products, even if strongly bonded to the surface, may 
desorb at the temperature of the catalytic reaction 
(around 300 "C), 
whereas crotonaldehyde was found to 
only desorb at temperaturea about 100 "C higher. This 
shows that the adsorbed organic moleculesurface 
complex that desorbs as crotonaldehyde is very stable 
on the surface, i.e., its turnover number is very low. The 
presence of this species was evidenced both in the 
presence and in the absence of gaseous oxygen and from 
Chemical Reviews, 1988. Vol. 88, NO. 
1 77 
both butane and butadiene. Parallel FT-IR tests sug- 
gest that in the presence of gaseous oxygen this species 
may slowly transform to carbon oxides and maleic an- 
hydride. The amount of this species on the surface of 
vanadyl pyrophosphate was found to increase as a 
function of time on stream. Parallel decreases in the 
rate of n-butane depletion and increases in the rate of 
maleic anhydride formation (Figure 31) were observed. 
The formation of this strongly bound species thus 
modifies the working state of (V0),P2O7 
in steady-state 
reaction conditions for n-butane oxidation. 
In conclusion, only fragmentary information is cur- 
rently available in the literature on the important as- 
pects of the nature of adsorbed species, the energetics 
of their interaction with vanadyl pyrophosphate, and 
the analysis of their importance in the mechanism of 
reaction relative to the dynamics of the working state 
of the catalyst surface. However, the literature does 
present important hypotheses and data on certain 
characteristics of this catalytic system. Strongly ad- 
sorbed species substantially change the nature of va- 
nadyl pyrophosphate during steady-state oxidation of 
butane.'" 
On the other hand, both tran~ient'~J~.'~~ 
and 
labeled-molecule 
pulse redox experiments129 
suggest the 
dynamic nature of the surface layer with respect to 
oxygen and hydrogen exchange/migration. All these 
observations agree with the hypothesis'% that the cat- 
alytic process in this complex reaction involves the 
shuttling of hydrogen away from and oxygen toward the 
intermediate adsorbed on the surface, and the inter- 
mediate forms a stable surface species which does not 
desorb, or reacts to form maleic anhydride. This 
mechanism is a key to the selectivity and the absence 
of intermediate products in the reaction of n-butane 
conversion to maleic anhydride. 
X. Final Rem8rks 
The lkelectron oxidation of butane to maleic anhy- 
dride is a very important reaction, both for commercial 
application and for scientific studies due to the inherent 
complexity of the mechanism. Two of its distinctive 
characteristics are (i) it is the only highly selective re- 
action of alkane functionalization and (ii) it is a very 
structure specific reaction. Notwithstanding extensive 
effort of many industrial catalysis research groups as 
well academic researchers, no other catalyst has been 
found that can match the selectivity of the vanadium 
phoephorus oxide system. This 
is in contrast to propene 
oxidation, where a number of different catalytic system 
were found to be selective.l*z-lffl This speaks to the 
unique nature of the active-site requirements for n- 
butane activation and selective oxidation, as well as 
to 
the unparalleled mechanistic characteristics of this re- 
action. Butane can be activated, for example, on va- 
nadium Ti0,-supported c a t a l y ~ t a ~ ~ , ~ ~  
(known selective 
catalysts for aromatic transformation to anhydrides), 
hut only carbon oxides are formed. Similarly, the ap- 
proach of Jung et ai.'ffi of creating coherent interfacial 
boundaries between the cleavage planes of an oxide 
active in dehydrogenation of butane into butenes (Co- 
MOO,) with an oxide active for the transformation of 
butenes into maleic anhydride (Moo3 
supported on 
TiO,) fails in obtaining a catalyst with the performance 
properties of PVO catalysts. 
78 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 
The vanadyl pyrophosphate catalyst, due to its par- 
ticular crystalline structure, shows a singular ability to 
control its oxidizing power.121J30 
This demonstrates the 
importance of structural site isolation of oxidizing sites 
indicated by Grasselli et al.130,140 
as the key in the 
control of selectivity in partial selective oxidation re- 
actions. 
The best selectivity is achieved when desorption of 
less selective intermediates along the reaction coordi- 
nate is avoided because the olefin reactions are less 
selective on a highly active butane (V0)2P207 
catalyst. 
This implies that attempts to promote individual steps 
in the reaction sequence, such as oxidative dehydroge- 
nation promoters to facilitate the formation of olefins, 
will not result in significantly better catalysts. 
The availability of oxygen to the surface is critical in 
avoiding desorption of less selective olefins. Thus it 
would appear that major selectivity gains could be 
achieved if more oxygen could be channeled to the ac- 
tive site. Because of the dynamic response of the 
(V0)zP207 
surface to the redox potential of the feed, 
as demonstrated by the changes induced by hydro- 
carbon feeds of different concentrations, comparisons 
of literature results on the reaction of C4 
hydrocarbons 
with vanadium phosphorus oxide catalyst should be 
done with this in mind. Additional research on iden- 
tifying and characterizing the surface and its dynamic 
response under reaction conditions, however, is needed 
in order to better understand these important aspects. 
The different kinetic behavior found in but-1-ene and 
n-butane oxidation can be explained on the basis of the 
different reducing power of the two hydrocarbons. The 
but-1-ene requires a lower oxidation state of the catalyst 
surface as compared to n-butane. To optimize the va- 
lence state of the catalyst surface different reaction 
conditions may be necessary, in particular, a different 
ratio of hydrocarbon/O, concentrations. Thus, the best 
catalysts for the oxidation of the two hydrocarbons to 
maleic anhydride must be different, because the optimal 
redox properties required are different. 
A central role in the modification 
of surface reactivity 
is adsorption of organic molecules and oxygen species. 
The mobility of these species under steady-state con- 
ditions of reaction is another characteristic of the va- 
nadyl pyrophosphate catalyst in n-butane oxidation, 
but 
more detailed information is necessary on this central 
aspect of PVO surface reactivity. 
The evidence leading to speculations on the catalytic 
behavior of PVO catalysts based only on the crystal 
chemistry a ~ p e c t s ~ ~ , ' ~ ~  
may not be sufficient for analysis 
of the complex reaction of butane conversion. A dis- 
cussion of the selectivity in oxidation 
reactions on mixed 
oxides must necessarily include a consideration of the 
dynamics of the process13o 
comprising a three-phase 
system: (i) a gas phase, (ii) a solid phase, and (iii) a 
two-dimensional surface region at the interface. Just 
static or crystallographic a p p r o a c h e ~ l ~ ~ ~ ' ~ ~  
cannot give 
a realistic picture of the working state of a catalyst and 
the mechanism of reaction. 
These discussed characteristics of (VO)zP207 
are 
utilized in the design of the process of n-butane con- 
version in a transport bed reactor.22 In this two-stage 
reactor, the catalyst surface can be charged with oxygen 
prior to butane reaction and in the butane leg of the 
reactor maleic anhydride destruction is minimal because 
of low oxygen and limited backmixing. This would give 
Centi et al. 
rise to the higher selectivities 
and yields realized in this 
process. 
Activation of the alkane hydrocarbon is a further 
important aspect of this reaction because of its mech- 
anistic relevance in the study of other heterogeneous 
reactions for functionalization of alkanes, and for the 
possible comparison with the well-known mechanisms 
of alkane activation in organometallic chemistry.ls7 A 
very specific surface structure is needed, and it would 
seem that the binding of intermediates until product 
is formed (single-site process) is essential to high se- 
lectivities. For example, this means that in the oxida- 
tion of methane to formaldehyde,ls8 
the site must be 
capable of binding the methyl and methoxy interme- 
diates during the process of oxidation to formaldehyde. 
It is likely that any paraffin selective oxidation catalyst 
will have to be as structurally unique and specific as 
(vo)~pzo7~ 
Finally, the challenge of molecular level identification 
of the nature of the surface sites responsible for the 
individual steps of the transformation and of the ele- 
mentary reactions involved remains. More research 
using more sophisticated chemical and spectroscopic 
surface techniques is needed to clarify a number of the 
ambiguous results. In this respect, a unique catalyst 
evaluation system like TAP with its real-time submil- 
lisecond resolution will enable investigations of the 
mechanism of complex reactions by using special 
reactants for chemical trapping of the intermediates of 
reaction, opening up a new dimension in the investi- 
gation of these types of complex catalytic reactions. 
Registry No. 
Maleic anhydride, 108-31-6; 
phosphorus vana- 
dium oxide, 65506-75-4. 
References 
Malow, M. Hydrocarbon Process. 1980, 11, 149. 
Haase, H. Chem.-Zng.-Tech. 1972, 1-2, 80. 
Weissermel, K.; Arpe, H. J. Industrial Organic Chemistry; 
Verlag Chemie: Weinheim, New York, 1978. 
Kanetaka, J.; 
Asano, T.; Masamune, S. Ind. Eng. Chem. 1970, 
62, 31. 
Chem. Mark. Rep. 1986,230, 8. 
Znd. Chem. News 1986,3, 9. 
Wohlfahrt, K.; Emig, G. Hydrocarbon Process. 1980, 6, 83. 
Wurzhacher. G. Chem.-Znp.-Tech. 1973. 22. 1297. 
_._._. 
De Maio, D.'A. Chem. Eng. 1980, 5, 104. 
Budi, F.; Neri, A,; Stefani, G. Hydrocarbon Process. 1982, I ,  
159. 
Arnold, S. C.; Sucire, G. D.; Verde, V.; Neri, L. Hydrocarbon 
Process. 1985, 9, 123. 
Varma. R. A.: Saraf. 
D. N. Ind. Ene. Chem. Prod. Res. Dev. 
1979, i8, 
7. ' 
Udovich, C. A.; Edwards, R. C. US. Patent 4564688 (to 
I 
Amoco), 1986. 
Barone, B. J. US. 
Patent 4 251 390 (to Denka), 1981. 
Schneider, R. A. U.S. Patent 3864280 (to Chevron), 1975. 
Schneider, R. A. US. Patent 4043943 (to Chevron), 1977. 
KeDDei. R. A,: Franchetti, V. M. U.S. Patent 4632915 (to 
Miisanto), 1986. 
Wrobleski, J. T.; Edwards, J. W.; Graham, C. R.; Keppel, R. 
A.; Raffelson, M. US. Patent 4 562 268 (to Monsanto), 1985. 
Dutta, S.; Arnold, S. C.; Sucire, G. D.; Verde, L. In Proceed- 
ings, 8th International Symposium on Chemical Reaction 
Engingeering (Edinburg, Sept 1984); Pergamon: Oxford, 
1984; EFCE Series 37, p 517. 
Blum, P. R.; Nicholas, M. L. US. 
Patent 4317 778 (to Sohio), 
1982. 
Chem. Eng. News 1987, 2, 24. 
Contractor, R. M.; Bergna, H. E.; Horowitz, H. S.; Black- 
stone, C. M.; Malone, B.; Torardi, C. C.; Griffiths, B.; Chow- 
dhry, U.; Sleight, A. W. Catal. Today 1987, 1, 
49. 
Catalysis Today (Proceedings, 1st Symposium on New De- 
velopments in Selective oxidation); Ruiz, P.; Delmon, B., 
Eds.; Elsevier: Amsterdam, 1987; 
Vol. 1, 
2. 
Hodnett, B. K. Catal. Reu.-Sci. Eng. 1985, 27, 373. 
Maleic Anhydride Synthesis from C, Hydrocarbons 
Hucknall, D. J. Selectiue Oxidation of Hydrocarbons; Aca- 
demic: London, 1974. 
Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Trifir6, F. J. 
Chem. SOC., 
Chem. Com- 
Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 79 
(72) Ebner, J. R.; Gleaves, J. T. US. Patent 4626412 (to Mon- 
santo Co.), 1986. 
(73) Bordes, E. Preprints, ACS Symposium of Division of Petro- 
leum Chemistry, "Hydrocarbon Oxidation", New Orleans 
mun. 1985, 492. 
Hodnett, B. K.; Delmon, B. Appl. Catal. 1983,9, 203. 
Hodnett, B. K.; Permanne, Ph.; Delmon, B. Appl. Catal. 
1983, 6, 231. 
Hodnett, B. K.; Delmon, B. Bull. SOC. 
Chim. 
Belg. 1983,92, 
Meeting, sept 1987. 
(74) Jordan, B.; Calvo, C. Can. J. 
Chem. 1973,51, 
2621. 
(75) Jordan, B.; Calvo, C. Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct. 
Crystallogr. Cryst. Chem. 1976, B32, 2899. 
(76) Gopal, R.; Calvo, C. J. Solid State Chem. 1972, 5, 432. 
(77) Bhargava, R. N.; Condrate, R. A. Appl. Spectrosc. 1977,31, 
non 
695. 
Martini, G.; Morselli, L.; Riva, A.; Trifirb, F. React. Kinet. 
Catal. Lett. 1978, 8, 431. 
Bordes, E.; Courtine, P.; Johnson, J. W. In Proceedings, 10th 
International Symposium on Reactivity of Solids (Dijon, 
France, Sept 1984), p 512. 
Bordes, E.; Johnson, J. W.; Raminosona, A,; Courtine, P. 
Mater. Sci. Monogr. 1985,28B, 887. 
Bordes, E.; Courtine, P. J. Chem. SOC., 
Chem. Commun. 
1985, 294. 
van Geem, P. C.; Nobel, A. P. P. Catal. Today 1987, I ,  5. 
Pyatnitskaya, A. I.; Komashko, G. A.; Zazhigalov, V. A. Ka- 
tal. Katal. 1979, 17,94. Pyatnitkkaya, A. I.; Komashko, G. 
A.; Zazhigalov, V. A,; Gorokhovatskii, Ya. B. React. Kinet. 
Catal. Lett. 1977, 6, 
341. 
Garbassi, F.; Bart, J. C.; Montino, F.; Petrini, G. Appl. Catal. 
1985. Zfi. 271. 
I - - ,  
Garbassi, F.; Bart, J. C.; Tassinari, R.; Vlaic, G.; Lagarde, P. 
J. Catalysis 1986, 98, 317. 
Hodnett, B. K.; Delmon, B. J. Catal. 1984,88,43. 
Hodnett, B. K.; Delmon, B. Appl. Catal. 1985, 15, 141. 
Hodnett, B. K.; Delmon, B. Ind. Eng. Chem. Fundam. 1984, 
23, 465. 
Wenig, R. W.; Schrader, G. L. Ind. Eng. Chem. Fundam. 
1986,25,612. Wenig, R. W.; Schrader, G. L. J. 
Phys. Chem. 
1986, 90, 
6480. 
Ai, M. J. Catal. 1986, 100, 336. 
Ai, M.; Boutry, P.; Montarnal, R. Bull. SOC. 
Chim. Fr. 1970, 
8-9. 
2775. 
- -, -. 
Ai, M.; Boutry, P.; Montarnal, R.; Thomas, G. Bull. SOC. 
Chim. Fr. 1970,8-9, 2783. 
Ai. M. Bull. Chem. SOC. 
JDn. 1970. 43. 3490. 
Ai; M.; Suzuki, S. Bull. Chem. Soc: Jpn. 1974,47, 
3074. 
Nakamura, M.; Kawai, K.; Fujiwara, Y. J. Catal. 1974, 34, 
34.5. 
Seeboth, H.; Kubias, K.; Wolf, H.; Lucke, B. Chem. Tech. 
(Leipzig) 
1976,28, 
730. 
Seeboth. H.: Ladwie. G.: Kubias. B.: Wolf. G.: Lucke. B. Ukr. 
Khim. Zh. 1977. 45' 842. 
Bordes, E.; Courtine, P. J. 
Catal. 1979,57, 236. 
Matsuura, I. Hyomen 1982,20, 605. 
Shimoda, 
T.; 
Okuhara, T.; 
Misono, M. Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 
1985,58, 2163. 
Morselli, L.; Riva, A.; Trifird, F.; Zucchi, M.; Emig, G. Chim. 
Ind. (Milan) 
1978, 60, 791. 
Poli, G.; Ruggeri, 0.; 
Trifirb, F. In Proceedings, 9th Znter- 
national Symposium on the Reactivity of Solids (Krakbw, 
Poland, 1980), p, 512. 
Emig, G.; Trifiro, F.; Hofmann, H. Chem.-Ztg. 1980,5, 165. 
Poli, G.; Resta, I.; Ruggeri, 0.; 
TrifirB, F. Appl. Catal. 1981, 
I ,  395. 
Lanzarini, G.; Trifirb, F.; Ruggeri, 0. Ann. Chim. (Paris) 
1981, 461. 
Centi, G.; Galassi, C.; Manenti, I.; Riva, A.; Trifirb, F. In 
Preparation of Catalysts III; Poncelet, G., Grange, P., Ja- 
cobs, P., Eds.; Elsevier: Amsterdam, 1983; p 543. 
Centi, G.; Manenti, I.; Riva, A.; TrifirB, F. Appl. Catal. 1984, 
9, 177. 
Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Trifirb, F. Appl. Catal. 1984, 9, 191. 
Grasselli, R. K. In Surface Properties and Catalysis by 
Non-Metals; 
Bonnelle, J. P., 
Delmon, B., Derouane, E., Eds.; 
NATO AS1 Series C.105; Reidel: Dordrecht, The Nether- 
lands, 1982; pp 273, 289. 
Dadyburjor, D. B.; Jewar, S. S.; Ruckenstein, R. Catal. 
Reu.-Sci. 
Eng. 1979, 19, 293. 
Haber, J. In Proceedings, 8th International Congress on 
Catalysis, (Berlin, 1984); Dechema: Frankfurt am Main, 
1984; Vol. I, p 85. 
Centi, G.; Trifirb, F. Appl. Catal. 1984, 12, 1. 
Kung, H. H. Ind. Eng. Chem. 
Prod. Res. Deu. 1986,25,171. 
Grasselli. R. K.: Burrinnton. J. D.: Brazdil. J. F. Faradav 
Discuss. Chem. SOC. 
19g1, 72, 203.' 
Grasselli, R. K . 
Burrington, J. D. Adu. Catal. 1981,30, 133. 
Centi, G.; Trifik, F.; Vaccari, A.; Pajonk, G. M.; Teichner, S. 
J. Bull. SOC. 
Chim. Fr. 1981, 7-8, 1. 
Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Manenti, I.; Riva, A.; TrifirB, F. In 
Proceedings, 9th Ibero-American Symposium on Catalysis 
(Lisbon, Portugal, July 1984), p 973. 
Centi, G.; Fornasari, G.; TrifirB, F. Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. 
Res. Deu. 1985, 24, 32. 
Gleaves, J. T.; Ebner. J. R.; Kuechler, T. C. Catal. Reu., 
accepted. 
L J W .  
(78) Ladwig, G. 2. 
Anorg. AUq. Chem. 1965, 338, 266. 
(79) Seifer, G. B.; Tananaev, I. V. Russ. J. Inorg. Chem. (Engl. 
Transl.) 1963, 8, 521. 
(80) Bordes, E.; Courtine, P.; Pannetier, G. Ann. Chim. (Paris) 
1973, 8, 105. 
(81) Ballutaud, D.; Bordes, E.; Courtine, P. In Studies in Inor- 
ganic Chemistry; Metselaar, R., et al., Eds.; Elsevier: Am- 
sterdam, 1983; Vol. 3, p 512. 
(82) Ballutaud, D.; Bordes, E.; Courtine, P. Mater. Res. Bull. 1982, 
17, 519. 
(83) Tachez, M.; Theobald, F.; Bordes, E. J. Solid State Chem. 
1981. 40. 280. 
(84) Tachez, 'M.; Theobald, F.; Bernard, J.; Hewat, A. W. Reu. 
Chim. Miner. 1982, 19, 291. 
(85) Tietze, H. R. Aust. J. Chem. 1981, 34, 2035. 
(86) Chernorukov, 
N. G. Izu. Akad. Nauk. S S S R  Neorp. Mater. 
- 
1981, 17, 338. 
(87) Chernorukov. N. G.: Eeorov. N. P.: Korshunov. I. A. Russ. J. 
.
I
 
Inorg. Chem.' (EngZ. Transi.) 1978,23, 1479. ' 
(88) Johnson, J. W.; Jacobson, A. J.; Brody, J. F.; Rich, S. M. 
Inorg. Chem. 1982,21, 3820. 
(89) Johnson. J. W.: Jacobson. A. J. Anaew. Chem.. Int. Ed. E n d .  
.
.
 
1983, 22; 412. ' 
(90) Jacobson, A. J.; Johnson, J. W.; Brody, J. F.; Scanlon, J. C.; 
Lewansowski, J. T. Znorg. Chem. 1985,24, 1782. 
(91) Johnson, J. W.; Johnston, D. C.; Jacobson, A. J.; Brody, J. F. 
J .  Am. Chem. SOC. 
1984,106,8123. 
(92) Leonowicz, M. E.; Johnson, J. W.; Brody, J. F.; Shannon, H. 
F.; Newsam, J. M. J. Solid State Chem. 1985, 56, 370. 
(93) Bordes, E.; Courtine, P.; Johnson, J. W. J. Solid State Chem. 
1984. 55. 270. 
- 
- 
I 
-
-
7
 
(94) Toiardi, C. C.; Calabrese, J. C. Inorg. Chem. 1984,23, 1308. 
(95) Centi, G.; Trifir6, F.; Poli, G. Appl. Catal. 1985, 19, 225. 
(96) Busca, G.; Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Trifir6, F. J. Catal. 1986,99, 
A
n
n
 
7"". 
(97) Whitinghaum, M. S.; Jacobson, A. J., Eds. Intercalation 
Chemistry; Academic: New York, 1982. 
(98) Beneke, K.; Lagaly, G. Znorg. Chem. 1983, 22, 1503. 
(99) Dines, M. B.; Di Giacomo, P. M. Inorg. Chem. 1981,20,92. 
(100) Alberti, G.; Costantino, U. J. Mol. Catal. 1984, 27, 235. 
(101) Alberti, G.; Costantino, U.; Perego, G. J. Solid State Chem. 
1986. 63. 455. 
(102) Johnson; J. W.; Jacobson, A. J.; Brody, J. F.; Lewandowski, 
J. T. Inorg. Chem. 1984,23, 3842. 
(103) Zazhigalov, V. A.; Pyatnitskaya, A. I.; Bachetokova, I. V.; 
Komashko. G. A.: Ladwie. G.: Belousov. V. M. React. Kinet. 
Catal. Lett. 1983, 23, 115. 
(104) Centi, G.; TrifirB, F. Chim. Ind. (Milan) 
1986, 68, 74. 
(105) Busca, G.; Centi, G.; Trifirb, F. Appl. Catal. 1986, 25, 265. 
(106) Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; TrifirB, F.; Poli, G. J. Thermal Anal. 
1985, 30, 1241. 
(107) Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Manenti, I.; Riva, A.; Trifir6, F. 187th 
National Meeting of the American Chemical Society (E. V. 
Murphee Award Symposium), 
St. Louis, April 1984. 
(108) Gorbunova, Yu. E.; Linde, S. A. Sou. Phys. Dokl. 1979, 24, 
138. 
(109) Middlemiss, N. Thesis, McMaster University, Hamilton, 
Canada, 1978. 
(110) Johnston, D. C.; Johnson, J. W. J. Chem. SOC., 
Chem. Com- 
mun. 1985, 1720. 
(111) Johnson, J. W.; Johnston, D. C.; Jacobson, A. J. Preprints, 
4th International Symposium on the Scientific Bases for the 
Preparation of Heterogeneous Catalysts (Louvain-la-Neuve, 
Belgium, Sept 1986), p 85. 
(112) Ladwig, G. 2. 
Chem. 1968, 8, 307. 
(113) Moser, T. P.; Schrader, G. L. J. Catal. 1985, 92, 43. 
(114) Buchanan, J. S.; 
Apostolakis, J.; Sundaresan, 
S. Appl. Catal. 
1985, 19, 65. 
(115) Khulbe, K. C.; Mann, R. S. Acta Chim. Hung. 1977,92, 17. 
(116) Martini, G.; Trifirb, F.; Vaccari, A. J .  Phys. Chem. 1982,86, 
1573. 
(117) Ber-eret, G.; David, M.; Broyer, J. P.; Volta, J. C.; Hecquet, 
G. &tal. Today 1987,1, 37. 
(118) Volta, J. C. 19th Swedish Symposium on Catalysis (Lund, 
.
.
 
Sweden, Oct 1986). 
(119) Bergeret, G.; Broyer, J. P.; David, M.; Gallezot, P.; Volta, J. 
C.; Hecquet, G. J. Chem. SOC., 
Chem. Commun. 1986, 825. 
(120) Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Trifir6, F.; Vaccari, A. In Adsorption 
and Catalysis on Oxide Surfaces; Che, M., Bond, G. C., Eds.; 
80 Chemical Reviews, 1988, Vol. 88, No. 1 
Centi et al. 
Elsevier: Amsterdam, 1985; p 287. 
Cavani, F.; 
Centi, G.; Riva, A.; Trifirb, F. Catal. Today 1987, 
1, 17. 
Schneider, P.; Emig, G.; 
Hofmann, 
H. Chem.-Ing.-Tech. 1985, 
57, 728. 
Courtine, P. In Solid State Chemistry in Catalysis; 
Grasselli, 
R. K., Brazdil, J. F., Eds.; American Chemical Society: 
Washington, DC, 1985; 
‘ACS Symp. Ser. 279, p 37. 
Zazhigalov, V. A.; Zaitsev, Yu. P.; Belousov, V. M.; Wiistneck, 
N.; Wolf, H.; Seeboth, H. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1986, 30, 
47. 
Wiisteck, N.; Wolf, H.; Seeboth, 
H. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 
1982, 21, 497. 
Minow, G.; Schnabel, K. H.; Ohlmann, G. React. Kinet. Ca- 
tal. Lett. 1983. 22. 399. 
Szakacs, S.; Wolf,’H.; Mink, G.; Bertoti, I.; Wustneck, N.; 
Lucke, B.; Seeboth, H. Catal. Today 1987, 1, 27. 
Zazhipalov, V. A.: Zaitsev. Yu. P.: Belousov. V. M.: Whtneck. 
N.; Wolf, H. React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 1984, 24, 375. 
Pepera, M. A.; Callahan, J. L.; Desmond, M. J.; 
Milberger, E. 
C.; Blum, P. R.; Bremer, N. J. J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
1985,107, 
4883. 
Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Trifirb, F.; Grasselli, R. K. Preprints, 
ACS Symposium of Division of Petroleum Chemistry, 
“Hydrocarbon Oxidation”, 
New Orleans Meeting, Sept 1987. 
Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Trifirb, F. Appl. Catal. 1985, 15, 151. 
Morselli, L.; TrifirB, F.; Urban, L. J. Catal. 1982, 75, 112. 
Centi, G.; Fornasari, G.; Trifirb, F. J. Catal. 1984, 89, 44. 
Buchanan, J. S.; Sundaresan, S. Appl. Catal. 1986, 26, 211. 
Wrobleski, J. T.; Brooks, R. F.; Ellis, W. S.; Mount, R. A. 
Monsanto Internal Report, 1982. 
Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Manenti, I.; Trifirb, F. Ind. Eng. Chem. 
Prod. Res. Dev. 1985, 24, 221. 
Levenspiel, 0. 
Chemical Reaction Engineering; Wiley: New 
York, 1972. 
Ebner, J. R.; Gleaves, J. T.; Kuechler, T. C.; Li, T. P. In 
Chemicals from Syngas and Methanol; Fahey, D., Ed.; Am- 
erican Chemical Society: Washington, DC, 1987; ACS Symp. 
Ser. 328, p 189. 
Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Manenti, I.; Riva, A.; TrifirB, F. Ind. 
Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Deu. 1983, 22, 565. 
Callahan. J. L.: Grasselli. R. K. AIChE J. 1963. 9. 755. 
Escardino, A.; Sola, C.; Ruiz, F. An. Quim. 1973,’69, 1157. 
Wohlfahrt, K.; Hofmann, H. Chem.-Ing.-Tech. 1980,52,811. 
Sharma, R. K.; Cresswell, D. L. Paper presented at AIChE 
Annual Meeting, San Francisco, Nov 1984. 
Lerou, J. J.; Weiher, J. F., Paper presented at Pittsburgh/ 
Cleveland Catalysis Society Meeting, May 1986. 
Kruchinin, Yu. A.; Mischenko, Yu. A.; Nechiporuk, P. P.; 
Gel’stein, A. I. Kinet. Katal. 1984, 25, 392. 
Varma. R. L.: Saraf. D. M. J. Catal. 1978. 55. 361. Varma. 
R. L.; Saraf, D. M. ’J. 
Catal. 1978, 55, 361. Varma, R. L.: 
Saraf, D. M. Indian J. Chem. Eng. 1978, 6, 
314. 
Brkic, D.; Trifirb, F. Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Dev. 1979, 
18, 333. 
Cavani, F.; Centi, G.; Trifirb, F. Ind. Eng. Chem. 
Prod. Res. 
Der. 1983, 22, 570. 
Sunderland, 
P. Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Deu. 1976,15,90. 
Hofmann, H.; Emig, G.; Roder, W. In Proceedings, 8th In- 
ternational Symposium on Chemical Engineering; Perga- 
mon: Oxford, 1984; EFCE Series 37, p 419. 
Muller, B.; Baerns, M. Chem.-Ing.-Tech. 1980, 52, 826. 
Matsuura. I. In Proceedings. 8th International Congress on 
Catalysis ’ (Berlin, 1984); 
IDechema: Frankfurt a
;
 
Main, 
1984; Vol. IV, p 473. 
Zein El Deen, A.; Baerns, M. In Proceedings, 5th Zbero-Am- 
erican Symposium on Catalysis, 1978, p 67. 
Mori, K.; Miyamoto, A.; 
Murakami, Y. J. Phys. Chem. 1985, 
89, 4265. 
Aika, K.; Lunsford, J. H. J. Phys. Chem. 1977, 81, 1393. 
Takita, Y.; Lunsford, J. H. J. Phys. Chem. 1979, 83, 683. 
Iwamoto, M.; Lunsford, J. H. J. Phys. Chem. 1980,84, 
3079. 
Driscoll, D. J.; 
Martin, W.; Wang, Ji-W.; Lunsford, J. H. In 
Adsorption and Catalysis on Oxide Surfaces: Che, M., Bond, 
G. C., Eds.; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1985; 
p 
403. 
Che, M.; Tench, A. J. Adv. Catal. 1982, 31, 77. Che, M.; 
Tench, A. J. Adv. Catal. 1983, 32, 1. 
Yang, T. J.; Lunsford, J. H. J. Catal. 1980, 63, 505. 
Khan, M. M.; Somorjai, G. A. J. Catal. 1985,91, 263. 
Liu, H. F.; Liu, R.-S.; Liew, K. Y.; Johnson, R. E.; Lunsford, 
J. H. J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
1984,106, 
4117. 
Ebner, J. R.; Gleaves, J. T. Proceedings, 5th IUCCP Sym- 
posium: Oxygen Complexes and Oxygen Activation by 
Metal Complexes, College Station, TX, Mar 1987. 
Fricke. R.: Jershekewitz. H.-G.: Lischke. G.: Ohlmann. G. 2. 
I
,
 
Anorg: Allg. Chem. 1979, 23, 448. 
Busca, G.; Centi, G.; Trifirb, F.; Lorenzelli, V. J. Phys. Chem. 
1986,90, 1337. 
Busca, G.; Centi, G.; Trifirb, F. J. Am. Chem. SOC. 
1985, 107, 
nncn 
1121. 
(165) Centi, G.; 
Trifirb, F. Preprip, ACS Symposium of Division 
of Petroleum Chemistry, Hydrocarbon Oxidation”, New 
Orleans Meeting, Sept 1987. 
1 Atkinson, R. Chem. Rev. 1985, 85, 69. 
’ Puttock, S. J.: Rochester. C. H. J. Chem. SOC.. 
Faradav 
Trans. 1 1986.’82. 
2773. 
Puttock, S. J:; Rochester, C. H. J. Chem. SOC., 
Faraday 
Trans. 1 1986,82, 3013. 
Mars, P.; van Krevelen, D. W. Chem. Eng. Sci. (Special 
Supplement), 
1954, 3, 41. 
Glaeser, L. C.; Brazdil, J. F.; Hazle, M. A.; Mehicic, M.; 
Grasselli, R. K. J. Chem. SOC., 
Faraday Trans. 1 1985, 81, 
2903. 
Ueda, W.; Moro-oka, Y.; Ikawa, T. J. Chem. SOC., 
Faraday 
Trans. 1 1982, 78, 495. 
Shets, V. A.: Sarichev, M. E.: Kazanskii, V. B. J. Catal. 1968, 
11, 378. 
Petts, R. W.; Waugh, K. C. J. Chem. SOC., 
Faraday Trans. 
I 1982. 78. 803. 
-, 
- - -  
~ ~
.
.
~
 
Weiss,’F.; Marion, J.; 
Metzger, J.; Cognion, J.-M. Kinet. Ca- 
tal. (Engl. Transl.) 1973, 14, 32. 
Centi, G.; Trifird, F. J. Mol. Catal. 1986, 35, 255. 
Cavani. F.: Centi. G.: Manenti. I.: Trifirb. F. Italian Patent 
.
,
 
20415 A 84, 1984. 
’ 
Busca, d; 
Centi, G.; Trifir6, F. In Proceedings, 4th 
Interna- 
tional Congress on Catalysts Deactivation (Antwerp, 
Belgi- 
um, Sept 1987). 
Busca, G.; Lavalley, J. C. Spectrochim. Acta, Part A 1986, 
42a, 443. 
Puttock, S. J.; Rochester, C. H. J. Chem. SOC., 
Faraday 
Trans. 1 1986,82, 
3033. 
Rozhkova, E. V.; Gerei, S. V.; Gorokhovatskii, Ya. B. Kinet. 
Catal. (Engl. Transl.) 1975, 15, 618. 
Centi, G.; Dyrek, K.; Labanowska, M.; Trifirb, F. In Pro- 
ceedings, 31st International Congress on Pure and Applied 
Chemistry (Sofia, Bulgaria, July 1987). 
Sleight, A. W. In Advanced Materials in Catalysis, Burton, 
J. J., Garten, R. L., Eds.; Academic: New York, 1977; p 181. 
Brazdil, J. F.; 
Teller, R. G.; Grasselli, R. K.; Kostiner, E. In 
Solid State Chemistry i n  Catalysis; 
Grasselli, R. K., Brazdil, 
J. F., Eds.; American Chemical Society: Washington, DC, 
1985; p 57 ACS Symp. Ser. 279, 
Centi, G.; Trifirb, F. Catal. Reu.-Sci. 
Eng. 1986, 28, 165. 
Jung, J. S.; 
Bordes, E.; Courtine, P. In Adsorption and Ca- 
talysis on Oxide Surfaces; che, M., Bond, G. C., Eds.; El- 
sevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1985; p 334. 
Volta, J. C.; Portefaix, J. L. Appl. Catal. 1985, 18, 1. Ziol- 
kowski, J. J. Catal. 1983, 84, 74, 317. Germain, J. E. In 
Adsorption and Catalysis on Oxide Surfaces; Che, M., Bond, 
G. C., Eds.; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1985; 
p 
232. 
Crabtree, R. H. Chem. Rev. 1985,85, 245. Schwartz, J. Acc. 
Chem. Res. 1985,18, 302. 
Gesser, H. D.; Hunter, N. R.; Prakash, C. B. Chem. Rev. 1985, 
85, 235. Pitchai, P.; Klier, K. Catal. Rev.-Sci. 
Eng. 1986,28, 
13. 
