<quotes>
[1] "The confidence crisis has immediate destructive consequences: Crisis countries are faced with a sudden rise of refinancing costs which put a large additional burden on their reform and consolidation task."
[2] "With FIRE, countries that benefit from low interest rates as a consequence of market panics would transfers some of their savings to subsidize the borrowing of crisis countries within a conditional fiscal scheme."
[3] "FIRE's stabilizing function, sr must be large enough to ensure benefitting countries to regain a sustainable long-run financing situation given a consequential reform and consolidation path."
[4] "FIRE leaves interest rate differentiation existent. While joint and several Eurobonds would fully level interest rates, this would not be the case with FIRE."
[5] "In order to safeguard FIRE's credible availability, provisions should clarify that a veto of single countries would not prevent other countries from participating in the FIRE scheme."
[6] "Given the market conditions of May 2012, the annual interest rate subsidy for the 2012 emissions would amount to approximately 6 bn. EUR."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The confidence crisis in euro government bond markets results in a sudden increase in refinancing costs, imposing a heavy burden on reform and consolidation efforts in crisis countries.
2. FIRE suggests that countries benefiting from low interest rates due to market panics should transfer some of their savings to assist crisis countries in their borrowing, within a conditional fiscal framework.
3. For FIRE to effectively stabilize the situation, the support provided (sr) must be sufficient to enable beneficiary countries to achieve sustainable long-term financing under a reform and consolidation pathway.
4. Unlike joint and several Eurobonds, which would equalize interest rates, FIRE maintains differentiation in interest rates while providing assistance to crisis countries.
5. To ensure the availability of FIRE, it should be stipulated that a veto by a single country would not prohibit others from participating in the scheme.
6. Based on the market conditions in May 2012, the annual interest rate subsidy for 2012 emissions for Spain and Italy would be approximately 6 billion EUR.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 信心危机导致欧元区国家面临骤增的再融资成本，这在短期内对改革和整合任务构成了巨大负担。
2. FIRE提出，因市场恐慌而受益于低利率的国家应转移部分储蓄，以补贴危机国家的借贷，通过条件性财政计划。
3. 为了确保稳定效果，为受益国实现可持续的长期融资情况，给予的支持（sr）必须足够大，在进行结构性改革和整合路径的情况下。
4. 相比之下，联合和连带的欧罗债券会全面平抑利率，而FIRE则保持利率差异性的同时提供援助给危机国家。
5. 为确保FIRE的可用性，应规定单个国家的否决权不会阻止其他国家参与该方案。
6. 根据2012年5月的市场条件，2012年新发行的西班牙和意大利国债每年的利息率补贴约为60亿欧元。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
