<quotes>

[1] "The confidence crisis has immediate destructive consequences: Crisis countries are faced with a sudden rise of refinancing costs which put a large additional burden on their reform and consolidation task."
[2] "In this situation, two solutions are prominent: First, jointly and severally guaranteed Eurobonds; and, second, monetary interventions at the bond markets like the European Central Bank Council has opted for in its decision of September 2012."
[3] "However, possible unintended side-effects are severe. In case of far-reaching mutual guarantees among Eurozone countries major disincentives arise since bond markets would no longer price national bonds on an individual basis."
[4] "FIRE would narrow the spread by (sr+sf) to (c-d). Due to FIRE's budget constraint the subsidy received, sr, and the subsidy financed, sf, must involve identical amounts of resources."
[5] "Thus, the FIRE rebalances some of the consolidation requirements between euro area countries in an appropriate way."
[6] "Since the size of subsidies in the context of FIRE is highly transparent, a full equalization of interest rates would result in a massively increasing immediate fiscal burden for highly rated countries."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The confidence crisis in euro government bond markets has immediate destructive impacts, causing crisis countries to face sudden increases in refinancing costs, which significantly strain their reform and consolidation efforts.

2. Two primary solutions are considered for addressing the crisis: joint and several guaranteed Eurobonds and monetary interventions at the bond markets, as exemplified by the European Central Bank's actions in September 2012.

3. Far-reaching mutual guarantees among Eurozone countries introduce major disincentives, as bond markets would no longer evaluate national bonds individually.

4. FIRE (fiscal interest rate equalization) reduces the interest rate spread by (sr+sf), with the received subsidy (sr) and financed subsidy (sf) involving identical resource amounts due to FIRE's budget constraints.

5. FIRE appropriately rebalances some of the consolidation requirements among euro area countries, thanks to the transparency regarding the size of subsidies provided by FIRE.

6. A full equalization of interest rates through FIRE would lead to a substantial and immediate fiscal burden for highly rated countries due to the transparency of the subsidy size.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 欧元政府债券市场的信心危机立即产生了破坏性后果：危机国家面临骤增的再融资成本，这在很大程度上加重了它们的改革和整合任务负担。

2. 针对当前状况，有两个突出解决方案：一是联合和连带保证的欧元债券；二是欧洲央行在2012年9月的决策中选择的债券市场货币干预措施。

3. 在欧元区国家之间实施广泛的相互保证会产生重大抵消作用，因为债券市场将不再根据各个国家单独定价。

4. FIRE（财政利息率平价）通过(sr+sf)减少利率差额，其中收到的补贴(sr)和融资的补贴(sf)由于FIRE的预算限制而涉及相同数量的资源。

5. FIRE以透明的方式平衡了欧元区内国家的部分整合需求，这是由于FIRE提供了补贴规模的透明度。

6. 通过FIRE实现全部利息率平等化会导致评级较高的国家面临巨大的即时财政负担，因为补贴规模的透明度是显而易见的。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
