<quotes>
[1] "This contribution proposes fiscal interest rate equalization (FIRE) as an alternative. With FIRE, countries that benefit from low interest rates as a consequence of market panics would transfers some of their savings to subsidize the borrowing of crisis countries within a conditional fiscal scheme."
[2] "The FIRE concept is based on the insight that the bad equilibrium in Euro government bond markets creates winners and losers. Issuers with a (relatively) high creditworthiness benefit from historically low refinancing conditions whereas issuers with deteriorating market standings can be confronted with an excess risk spread as a consequence of a deteriorating panic."
[3] "With FIRE, countries that benefit from low interest rates as a consequence of market panics would transfers some of their savings to subsidize the borrowing of crisis countries within a conditional fiscal scheme."
[4] "The amount of 5.7 bn. EUR for the cost of the FIRE scheme refers to the annual interest rate subsidy for both countries' total emissions in 2012. This subsidy would have to be paid annually over the whole maturity of 2012 emissions."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The document proposes fiscal interest rate equalization (FIRE) as an alternative solution to stabilize bond markets during crises. Countries benefiting from low interest rates due to market panics would transfer some of their savings to subsidize the borrowing of crisis countries through a conditional fiscal scheme.

2. The FIRE concept is grounded in the understanding that in a poor market equilibrium in Euro government bond markets, there are winners and losers. Entities with relatively high creditworthiness benefit from historically low refinancing conditions, while those with declining market positions face excessive risk spreads resulting from deteriorating market panics.

3. In the context of FIRE, countries that benefit from low interest rates due to market panics would transfer some of their savings to assist crisis countries in their borrowing needs within a conditional fiscal framework.

4. The cost of the FIRE scheme for protecting Spain and Italy against interest rates above 5% in 2012 would amount to approximately 5.7 billion EUR annually for their total emissions in that year. This subsidy would have to be paid every year over the entire maturity of the 2012 emissions.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 文档提出了财政利息率平等化（FIRE）作为替代方案，以稳定危机期间的债券市场。因市场恐慌而受益于低利率的国家将通过有条件财政计划转移部分储蓄，以补贴危机国家的借款需求。

2. FIRE概念基于理解，在欧元政府债券市场的糟糕均衡中，存在赢家和输家。信用较高的实体能够享受到历史上较低的再融资条件，而市场地位恶化的企业则会面临因市场恐慌加剧而导致的风险溢价。

3. 在FIRE框架下，因市场恐慌而受益于低利率的国家将转移部分储蓄来协助危机国家的借款需求，这需要在有条件财政计划内进行。

4. 为了保护西班牙和意大利在2012年免受利率超过5%的影响，FIRE方案的成本为每年约5.7亿欧元。这相当于这两个国家当年总发行量的年度补贴，且必须每年支付直至2012年发行的全部到期。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
