<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          [1] "The PVD methods utilize the line of sight deposition to produce a metal overlayer on the target substrate. The controlling parameters of typical PVD synthesis include the rate of metal vapor flux, time of deposition, substrate temperature, and deposition environment such as in vacuum or in the background of selected gases. Common PVD methods include magnetron sputtering, pulsed laser deposition, e-beam sputtering, and physical evaporation of the overlayer metal via thermal filament."
          [2] "The metal source consists of a 0.5 mm tungsten (W) wire, which is wrapped around with 0.1 mm wire of the metal of interest. The W wire is connected to the power supply through a UHV feedthrough and can be resistively heated using either DC or AC power supply. The extremely high melting temperature of the W filament allows the ultra-pure metal wire to evaporate without contamination from the tungsten."
          [3] "The evaporation filament is typically housed in a stainless steel cylinder, with an opening of about 1 cm at the front face of the cylinder, to direct the metal deposition onto the substrate and to prevent the evaporation of metals onto the UHV systems."
          [4] "The metal source is gradually heated to the temperature of evaporation and held for certain amount of time to achieve the reproducible deposition of impurity free metal overlayer."
          [5] "Such conditioning of the source often takes many hours, often at a current or voltage slightly higher than that will be used for the metal deposition."
          [6] "Once the metal source is conditioned, the bimetallic surface with desired admetal coverage can be achieved by placing the single crystal substrate close to the opening of the metal source."
          [7] "The pressure in the UHV system should be 5×1010 Torr or lower during evaporation to prevent the accumulation of background impurities on the bimetallic surface."
          [8] "In many cases, the crystal temperature is typically maintained at 600 K during deposition to minimize the adsorption of impurities such as CO."
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The physical vapor deposition (PVD) technique, particularly thermal evaporation, is a method used to create bimetallic surfaces in ultra-high vacuum (UHV) environments. The process involves line-of-sight deposition to produce a metal overlayer on the target substrate. Critical process parameters include the rate of metal vapor flux, time of deposition, substrate temperature, and deposition environment. Common PVD methods include magnetron sputtering, pulsed laser deposition, e-beam sputtering, and thermal filament evaporation. The metal source is typically a tungsten wire wrapped with the metal of interest, which is resistively heated to evaporate the metal without contamination. The evaporation filament is housed in a stainless steel cylinder with an opening to direct the metal deposition onto the substrate and prevent metal evaporation onto the UHV systems. Conditioning the metal source to the temperature of evaporation for a certain amount of time ensures reproducible deposition of impurity-free metal overlayers. This conditioning process often takes many hours at a slightly higher current or voltage than used for metal deposition. The bimetallic surface with desired admetal coverage is achieved by placing the single crystal substrate close to the metal source opening. The UHV system pressure should be 5×1010 Torr or lower during evaporation to prevent impurity accumulation on the bimetallic surface. Maintaining the crystal temperature at 600 K during deposition minimizes impurity adsorption such as CO. This method facilitates surface science studies by allowing the deposition of high-purity metal overlayers under controlled conditions. Key considerations for achieving optimal results include precise control of deposition parameters, ensuring a high vacuum environment, and minimizing impurity adsorption.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          物理气相沉积（PVD）技术，特别是热蒸发，是在超高真空（UHV）环境中创建双金属表面的方法。该过程涉及视线沉积，以在目标基板上产生金属覆盖层。关键工艺参数包括金属蒸气流速、沉积时间、基板温度和沉积环境。常见的PVD方法包括磁控溅射、脉冲激光沉积、电子束溅射和热丝蒸发。金属源通常是用感兴趣的金属包裹的钨丝，通过电阻加热蒸发金属，避免污染。蒸发丝通常安装在带有开口的不锈钢圆筒中，以引导金属沉积到基板上，并防止金属蒸发到UHV系统上。将金属源加热到蒸发温度并保持一定时间，以确保无杂质金属覆盖层的可重复沉积。这种金属源的调节过程通常需要数小时，电流或电压略高于金属沉积时使用的值。通过将单晶基板放置在金属源开口附近，可以实现具有所需覆盖层的双金属表面。在蒸发过程中，UHV系统的压力应保持在5×1010托或更低，以防止双金属表面上杂质的积累。在沉积过程中将晶体温度保持在600 K可以最大限度地减少如CO等杂质的吸附。该方法通过在受控条件下沉积高纯度金属覆盖层，促进了表面科学的研究。为了获得最佳结果，关键考虑因素包括精确控制沉积参数、确保高真空环境和最大限度减少杂质吸附。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
