<quotes>

[1] "The acidity of Si-Beta, 0.1Pt/Si-Beta, 2Zn/Si-Beta and 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta samples were evaluated by means of NH3-TPD and the results are shown in Fig. 3 (c). Parent H-Beta demonstrates two NH3 desorption peaks, revealing the presence of both weak and strong acid sites, respectively (not shown here) [37] ,[38] ,[39] ,[40] ,[41] . After the complete dealumination of H-Beta, no desorption peaks could be observed for the resulting Si-Beta sample due to the absence of acid sites [42] . Subsequently, the introduction of a small amount of Pt species to the Si-Beta support results in the appearance of trace medium acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 523 K) and the introduction of Zn results in the appearance of higher amount of Lewis acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 423 K). With the introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta, an ammonia desorption peak centered at 443 K with much higher intensity could be observed on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. With electrons transfer from Zn species to Pt species, the Zn species become electron-deficient and Lewis acidic thereof. In other word, the observed Lewis acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as compared to 2Zn/Si-Beta should indicate the strong interaction between Pt and Zn species on the Si-Beta support."
[2] "The morphology of the zeolite support and the dispersion of Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta support were directly investigated by electron microscopy and the representative results are shown in Fig. 2 . Generally, 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta appears as small aggregates of below 100 nm. In the HR-TEM image, homogeneously dispersed dark dots of 1  2.5 nm could be observed. STEM mapping analyses reveal the presence of both highly-dispersed Zn species (<1 nm) and small aggregates (1  2.5 nm). Meanwhile, no aggregation of Pt species could be observed due to its high dispersion and low loading. Obviously, Pt and Zn species appear in the overlapped locations, hinting to the close contact between Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite support."
[3] "The evolution the silanol groups after dealumination and metal incorporation procedures was monitored by infrared spectroscopy to disclosed the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite."
[4] "The local electronic environment of Pt is of great significance for PDH process. In this study, the local electronic environment of Pt was investigated by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption, which is reliable for the discrimination of highly dispersed Pt centers and large metal bulks even at very low Pt loading."
[5] "The XRD patterns of the parent H-Beta, Si-Beta, Zn/Si-Beta, and Pt-Zn/Si-Beta are shown in Fig. 1 (a). Typical diffraction lines characteristic for the BEA topology are observed for all samples, while a noticeable decline in the intensity could be observed after the introduction of Zn species."
[6] "The surface areas of zeolite samples were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms at 87 K collected on a Quantachrome iQ-MP gas adsorption analyzer. The Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) method was used to calculate the total surface area and the t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore properties."
[7] "The detailed textural properties of Si-Beta, and M/Si-Beta samples are summarized in Table S1 . All samples exhibit similar high surface areas of 553  616 m2 g1 and large micropore volumes of 0.3510.413 cm3 g1, indicating the well preserved microporous structure of Beta zeolite after dealumination and metal incorporation."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The acidity of the catalysts was evaluated by NH3-TPD. Parent H-Beta has both weak and strong acid sites. After dealumination, Si-Beta has no acid sites. The introduction of Pt species results in trace medium acid sites, while the introduction of Zn results in higher amounts of Lewis acid sites. The introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta leads to an ammonia desorption peak with much higher intensity, indicating the strong interaction between Pt and Zn species on the Si-Beta support.
2.The morphology of the zeolite support and the dispersion of Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta support were investigated by electron microscopy. 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta appears as small aggregates of below 100 nm. In the HR-TEM image, homogeneously dispersed dark dots of 1  2.5 nm could be observed. STEM mapping analyses reveal the presence of both highly-dispersed Zn species (<1 nm) and small aggregates (1  2.5 nm). No aggregation of Pt species could be observed due to its high dispersion and low loading. Pt and Zn species appear in the overlapped locations, hinting to the close contact between Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite support.
3.The evolution of silanol groups after dealumination and metal incorporation procedures was monitored by infrared spectroscopy to disclose the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite.
4.The local electronic environment of Pt is of great significance for PDH process. The local electronic environment of Pt was investigated by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption.
5.The XRD patterns of the parent H-Beta, Si-Beta, Zn/Si-Beta, and Pt-Zn/Si-Beta are shown. Typical diffraction lines characteristic for the BEA topology are observed for all samples, while a noticeable decline in the intensity could be observed after the introduction of Zn species.
6.The surface areas of zeolite samples were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms at 87 K. The Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) method was used to calculate the total surface area and the t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore properties.
7.All samples exhibit similar high surface areas of 553  616 m2 g1 and large micropore volumes of 0.3510.413 cm3 g1, indicating the well preserved microporous structure of Beta zeolite after dealumination and metal incorporation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.通过NH3-TPD评估了催化剂的酸性。母体H-Beta具有弱酸性和强酸性位点。经过脱铝后，Si-Beta没有酸性位点。引入Pt物种导致出现微量中等酸性位点，而引入Zn导致出现较高量的Lewis酸性位点。将Pt引入2Zn/Si-Beta会导致氨脱附峰强度明显增加，表明Pt和Zn物种在Si-Beta支撑上存在强烈的相互作用。
2.通过电子显微镜研究了沸石支撑的形态和Pt和Zn物种在Si-Beta支撑上的分散情况。0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta表现为小于100 nm的小聚集体。在HR-TEM图像中，可以观察到均匀分散的1  2.5 nm的暗点。STEM映射分析揭示了高度分散的Zn物种(<1 nm)和小聚集体(1  2.5 nm)的存在。由于Pt物种的高分散性和低负载，没有观察到Pt物种的聚集。Pt和Zn物种出现在重叠位置，暗示Pt和Zn物种在Si-Beta沸石支撑上存在密切接触。
3.通过红外光谱监测了脱铝和金属掺入程序后硅醇基团的演变，以披露Pt-Zn物种在Si-Beta沸石上的形成。
4.Pt的局部电子环境对PDH过程具有重要意义。通过CO吸附的FTIR光谱研究了Pt的局部电子环境。
5.显示了母体H-Beta，Si-Beta，Zn/Si-Beta和Pt-Zn/Si-Beta的XRD图。对于所有样品，都可以观察到BEA拓扑的典型衍射线，而在引入Zn物种后，强度明显下降。
6.通过87 K下的氩气吸附/脱附等温线确定了沸石样品的表面积。使用Brunauer Emmett Teller(BET)方法计算总表面积，并使用t-plot方法计算微孔性质。
7.所有样品都表现出相似的高表面积(553  616 m2 g1)和大微孔体积(0.3510.413 cm3 g1)，表明脱铝和金属掺入后Beta沸石的微孔结构得到了很好的保留。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
