Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The spatial distribution, classification, and performance of active sites in B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with emphasis on 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. These sites enable high reactivity, selectivity, and stability, enhancing propene productivity. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Enhancing stability involves designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which can extend catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "Boron species, anchored to a zeolite matrix, dynamically transform during ODHP, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, identified as active centers, are more efficient in propane's CH bond activation than isolated species. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, and uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active centers. The literature lacks specifics on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites influence performance, particularly for 1-D edge sites, in B-based catalysts for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for activity. While literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites affect performance, understanding these aspects, particularly 1-D edge sites, could enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for propane's oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), edge B atoms play a pivotal role in O2 activation, forming BO(H) active sites that abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, yielding propylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers, enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, crucial for ODHP reactions. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers allow for adjustable properties and good interaction between nanoparticles and support, boosting activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, shows high propylene productivity. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating diffusion isn't limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion. Under high space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits superior olefin productivity compared to bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. The protective effect of boron oxide modification against O2 activation is significant, increasing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% while decreasing the overall reaction rate, leading to improved propene production. The maximum productivity of propene is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, especially 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts by avoiding facile overoxidation of propene to COx, addressing a key challenge in the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer, highlighting the importance of the h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion. Understanding and controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can lead to improved catalyst design for ODHP, focusing on mass and heat transfer optimization, active site utilization, and suppression of deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts' active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. 1-D active sites, linearly dispersed on h-BN sheets or in BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene. Zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Challenges include an induction period, low edge density, and stability issues. Preoxygen modification reduces the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size improves activity, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes strengthens catalysts. Composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3 enhance 1-D active site stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing the ODHP reaction, with aggregated species more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form is suggested as a method to construct highly active boron centers. However, specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, especially 1-D edge active sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications is lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of these active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, is vital for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Doping with B or P enhances selectivity to propene, influenced by the type of heteroatom and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers are advantageous due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose highly active sites (Quote 1). Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers ensure good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 2, 3). The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its uniform dispersion of h-BN, exhibits excellent performance in ODHP, achieving high propylene productivity (Quote 4). The catalyst's one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates (Quote 12). Its productivity under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts (Quote 14), due to enhanced mass transfer allowing easy exposure of active sites. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, with boron oxide blocking combustion sites and suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect raises the activation energy for O2 conversion by about 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a minimal surface fraction is catalytically active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, and optimal propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01 wt%, highlighting the importance of understanding 1-D edge active sites for efficient catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, influenced by the crystal structure, impacting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN (>BOON<) as active sites enhances olefin selectivity and prevents overoxidation of propene to COx, a common issue in 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property, confirmed by catalytic activity, spectroscopic data, and DFT calculations, offers a fundamentally different reaction mechanism, stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation, thus improving catalyst efficiency for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity, with its thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, active sites' spatial distribution and dimensionality, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. These linearly dispersed sites on 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene via radical rebound. DFT studies reveal the zigzag B-terminated edge as more active. To improve 1-D edge sites, preoxygen modification reduces the induction period, smaller BN nanosheets increase edge density, and aggregating components into 1-D shapes strengthens catalysts. The stability of 1-D sites is enhanced by designing composites like h-BNxIn2O3, which improves catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), boron species anchored to the zeolite matrix are crucial for catalytic efficiency. These species dynamically transform into aggregated forms during ODHP, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly those with BOH groups hydrogen bonded to SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are key in catalyzing ODHP, with aggregated species more efficient in CH bond activation than isolated ones. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. However, the literature lacks specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are key in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the importance of understanding 1-D edge active sites. This understanding can contribute to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, despite the literature's lack of detail on spatial distribution and dimensionality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs' basal plane edges, rich in defects, serve as active sites, with quinone or dicarbonyl groups being selective. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a crucial role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, similar to their function in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. These 1-D edge active sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these sites' unique properties and mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and mechanisms is vital for designing efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. One-dimensional h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalysts, prepared by electrospinning, have garnered attention for their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose highly active sites, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. These catalysts, with uniformly dispersed h-BN, exhibit excellent performance in ODHP, achieving high propylene productivity. The h-BN loading affects the nanofiber diameter and propane conversion, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrates remarkably higher productivity of olefins compared to bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and easy exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with a protective effect against O2 activation, increasing activation energy by ~40kJmol-1. Even at low boron oxide loadings (0.003wt%), propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is crucial, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, influenced by the crystal structure, affecting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered and tetragonal borides exhibit different boron surface concentrations, impacting BOx species formation, which is key to understanding 1-D edge active sites and enhancing catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) acts as an active site, preventing the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppressing overoxidation of adsorbed species. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, offering significant advantages over 0D single-site and 2D surface catalysts. Understanding and utilizing these 1-D edge active sites contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The performance of B-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, with 1-D edge sites being crucial. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst exhibits high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer play a significant role in the catalyst's performance, highlighting the importance of controlling the spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge active sites in 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, significantly influence performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites offer higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs exhibiting higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them attractive for commercial ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Challenges include an induction period for active site formation, low edge density limiting catalytic activity, and stability issues. Preoxygen modification reduces the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size improves activity, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes strengthens catalysts. Composite catalysts, like h-BNxIn2O3, enhance 1-D dispersed active site stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "Boron species, anchored to a zeolite matrix, dynamically transform into aggregated forms during ODHP, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated boron species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form is suggested for constructing highly active boron centers, although specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites influence performance is lacking. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are pivotal in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the importance of 1-D edge active sites. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to the design of more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly influence performance. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its 1-D fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, facilitates substance transmission and exposes highly active sites, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. This catalyst exhibits excellent performance in ODHP, with high propylene productivity, due to its one-dimensional structure that allows for active site exposure and improved mass transfer. The propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that the conversion is not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than that of bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts, showcasing its superior catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect raises the activation energy for O2 conversion by about 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. At a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%, propene selectivity increases from 17% to 28%, and overall reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework's surface contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient commercial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions influencing reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure impacting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges (>BOON<) as active sites for ODHP reactions prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, improving olefin selectivity. This unique property, highlighted by the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts, addressing the challenge of facile overoxidation of propene to COx and enhancing commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The performance of B-based catalysts in ODHP is influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its structure, which optimizes mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer play a critical role in the catalyst's performance, highlighting the importance of active site distribution. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites, and suppressing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates. BN materials exhibit high reactivity, selectivity, and stability, enhancing propene productivity for commercial ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and propene. DFT studies reveal that zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than armchair or zigzag nitride-terminated edges. Strategies to improve 1-D active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH, act as efficient active centers at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for ODHP catalysis, with aggregated species more effective in propane CH bond activation. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, which are the active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances selectivity to propene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is essential for designing efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional structure, facilitates active site exposure and substance transmission, enhancing activity and selectivity. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst exhibits uniform h-BN dispersion on a SiO2 support, leading to excellent stability and high propylene productivity. Propane conversion increases with h-BN loading and reaction temperature, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The catalyst's one-dimensional structure allows for higher conversion by exposing active sites more effectively. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrates remarkably higher productivity of olefins compared to bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high propene selectivity in ODHP, with selectivity increasing from 17% to 28% and overall reaction rate decreasing from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, improving propene production by up to 18%. This effect is observed even at low boron oxide loadings (0.003 wt%), demonstrating the efficiency of 1-D edge active sites. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01 wt%. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations, ensuring high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to superior performance, highlighting the importance of 1-D edge active sites in designing efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions between surface BOx species and the subsurface bulk structure affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides (NiB, TiB2, hBN) may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides (WB, Co2B), impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions by improving olefin selectivity and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique property, avoiding the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppressing overoxidation of adsorbed species, distinguishes 1-D sites from 0D and 2D catalysts, contributing to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts significantly influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, with 1-D edge active sites playing a critical role. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity in ODHP, highlighting the importance of the h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion. Optimizing mass and heat transfer processes, utilizing active sites effectively, and suppressing secondary reactions of deep oxidation are key considerations for designing efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact performance. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D B-based edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3 enhance the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated species during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those with BOH groups hydrogen bonded to SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, with aggregated species more efficient in CH bond activation than isolated ones. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, it underscores the significance of defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) in enhancing activity. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs play a crucial role due to their higher density of defects, which are accessible to reactants. These defects, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are selective sites, unlike unselective carboxylic acids. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), edge B atoms play a pivotal role in O2 activation, forming BO(H) active sites at the edges of boron nitride nanosheets. These 1-D edge active sites abstract hydrogen from ethane with O2 assistance, producing ethylene. Understanding these sites' unique properties and mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. active site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts' performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, prepared by electrospinning, facilitates substance transmission and exposes highly active sites, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. Its one-dimensional fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion lead to high propylene productivity. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The catalyst's one-dimensional structure allows for greater active site exposure, boosting conversion. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits remarkably higher olefin productivity than bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and easy exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, suppressing carbon framework combustion by blocking combustion sites. This protective effect, observed even at low boron oxide loadings, increases propene selectivity from 17% to 28% while decreasing the overall reaction rate, leading to improved propene production of up to 18%. The optimal B2O3 loading for maximum propene productivity is 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can contribute to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding these unique properties, especially of 1-D edge active sites, can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is crucial, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, especially for 1-D edge active sites, is key to designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D edge active sites, like the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), significantly enhance oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. These sites prevent the facile overoxidation of propene to COx and improve selectivity to olefins, distinguishing BN materials from other catalysts. The 1-D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, contributing to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, notably 1-D edge sites, are crucial for performance. h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalysts exhibit high selectivity and productivity due to their optimized structure, which enhances mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniformity of the h-BN layer are key factors in the catalyst's performance, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can improve catalyst design. Efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on h-BN sheets or BNNTs. These 1-D sites exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates than h-BN. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene. Zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3 enhance 1-D active site stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the significance of boron species in B-based catalysts for ODHP, noting that isolated species transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly defect sites, are more efficient in propane's CH bond activation. Constructing highly active boron centers by uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix is suggested. However, specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of these 1-D edge active sites can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids are not. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in boron nitride nanosheets play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, analogous to the ODHP reaction. These 1-D edge active sites activate O2, forming BO(H) sites that abstract hydrogen from ethane, producing ethylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms could lead to the design of more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, dynamically generated by molecular oxygen abstracting hydrogen from BOH groups, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional fibrous structure, facilitates substance transmission and exposes highly active sites, enhancing activity and selectivity. Propane conversion increases with higher h-BN loading and reaction temperature, indicating that molecular diffusion does not limit the conversion. This catalyst's one-dimensional structure allows for higher conversion by exposing active sites more effectively. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits remarkably higher productivity of olefins than bulk h-BN catalysts and most reported boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and active site exposure.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. Propene selectivity increases from 17% to 28% with a decrease in overall reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides such as WB and Co2B, affecting BOx species formation and, consequently, catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges (>BOON<) as active sites prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, unlike 0-D and 2-D catalysts. This unique property enhances olefin selectivity and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, are crucial. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer facilitated by a thin h-BN layer. The uniform dispersion and thickness of the h-BN layer highlight the importance of active site distribution in enhancing catalyst performance. For commercial applications, designing efficient B-based catalysts should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    