Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The spatial distribution, classification, and performance of active sites in B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with emphasis on 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing notably higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to shorten the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Enhancing the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites through composite catalyst design, such as h-BNxIn2O3, can extend catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated boron species are crucial for catalyzing the ODHP reaction, with aggregated species more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites influence performance, especially regarding 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of these 1-D edge active sites can significantly contribute to the design of more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are critical due to their high density of defects accessible to reactants. Doping with B or P enhances selectivity to propene, influenced by the type of heteroatom and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, demonstrates superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "The 1-D h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, prepared by electrospinning, significantly enhances active site exposure in ODHP reactions, leading to higher propane conversion and propylene productivity. The catalyst's performance improves with increased h-BN loading and reaction temperature, indicating efficient mass transfer and active site utilization. Its productivity of olefins under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts, highlighting the benefits of its 1-D structure in facilitating substance transmission and active site participation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by ~40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a low 0.003 wt% loading of boron oxide significantly impacts catalytic activity. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, especially for 1-D edge active sites, is key to designing efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the 1-D oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, crucial for designing efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer, influenced by the h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion. Controlling the spatial distribution of active sites could enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications, focusing on mass and heat transfer optimization, active site utilization, and suppression of deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts' active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) performance. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs exhibiting superior mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene. DFT studies reveal the zigzag B-terminated edge as the most active 1-D site. Preoxygen modification reduces the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size improves activity, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes strengthens catalysts. The h-BNxIn2O3 composite enhances 1-D active site stability, extending catalytic life.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated species during the process, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active centers. However, specific literature on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for activity. Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, especially of 1-D edge active sites, affect performance. Understanding these aspects could enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective, while carboxylic acids are not. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, crucial for ODHP reactions. The electrospinning-prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber, with uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits superior activity, selectivity, and stability for ODHP, achieving high propylene productivity. The catalyst's fibrous structure and h-BN loading impact its performance, with propane conversion increasing linearly as h-BN loading rises. This reveals that molecular diffusion does not limit conversion. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, boosting conversion rates. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity of olefins is notably higher than bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer enabling easy exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide-modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP by blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion, and increasing activation energy for O2 conversion. Even at low boron oxide loadings, propene selectivity significantly improves, from 17% to 28%, while the overall reaction rate decreases, leading to a 18% increase in propene production. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can contribute to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, influenced by the crystal structure, affecting active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D edge active sites, particularly the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), significantly enhance performance in ODHP reactions by improving olefin selectivity and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique property, as observed in BN materials compared to supported vanadia catalysts, stabilizes the propyl radical via a nitroxyl radical site, avoiding the creation of highly reactive radicals typical of 0D single-site catalysts and suppressing overoxidation common in 2D surface catalysts. Understanding and utilizing these 1-D edge sites contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure, which enhances mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets or BNNTs. These 1-D sites exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, particularly BNNTs, which have higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. The high reactivity, selectivity, and stability of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. DFT calculations reveal that the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active than other 1-D edge sites. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks specifics on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, it highlights the significance of defect boron sites and the dynamic transformation of isolated boron species into aggregated ones, which are more efficient in catalyzing ODHP, especially at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species, with BOH groups hydrogen bonding with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as the active center. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may enhance catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts. Understanding their spatial distribution and dimensionality, particularly 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, as current literature lacks this perspective.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, which expose basal plane edges with a higher density of defects, are crucial. These defects, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are selective active sites. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, similar to their function in ethane dehydrogenation. These 1-D edge active sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, crucial for ODHP reactions. The electrospun h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits superior activity, selectivity, and stability, achieving high propylene productivity. Increased h-BN loading and reaction temperature boost propane conversion, indicating diffusion isn't limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates. Under high space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity of olefins is notably higher than bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and exposed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide-modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with a significant protective effect against O2 activation, increasing activation energy by ~40 kJ/mol. At low boron oxide loadings (0.003 wt% and above), propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, despite a decrease in overall reaction rate, leading to an 18% increase in propene production. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can aid in designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance, highlighting the importance of 1-D edge active sites in catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions influencing reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, with crystal structure affecting BOx species and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by improving selectivity to olefins and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This 1-D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, making these catalysts more efficient for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to its optimized mass and heat transfer properties. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer, which influences the spatial distribution of active sites, is crucial for performance. Efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial configuration of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impacts their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials exhibit high reactivity, selectivity, and stability, enhancing propene productivity for commercial applications. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among the 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), boron species anchored to the zeolite matrix dynamically transform into aggregated forms during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen-bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. While literature lacks specifics on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites influence performance, it highlights the importance of defect boron sites and aggregated species in catalyzing the reaction. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active centers, though the role of 1-D edge active sites in commercial catalyst design remains unclear.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties can significantly contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications, despite a lack of literature on how spatial distribution and dimensionality influence performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites can significantly contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites enhances catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, improving performance. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers ensure good interaction between nanoparticles and support, boosting activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with a fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, shows high propylene productivity. Propane conversion rises with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating diffusion isn't limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits remarkable olefin productivity, outperforming bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high propene selectivity in ODHP, with boron oxide blocking combustion sites and suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. At a 0.003wt% loading, the protective effect against O2 activation is evident, increasing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% and improving propene production by 18%, despite a decrease in overall reaction rate. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute significantly to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the performance is influenced by boron-oxygen coordination at the active sites, which are likely surface-stabilized BOx sites. The crystal structure impacts the formation of BOx species during ODH, affecting active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation and, consequently, the catalyst's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst exhibits high selectivity and productivity in ODHP reactions due to its structure, which optimizes mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer highlight the importance of the spatial distribution of active sites in influencing catalyst performance. Optimizing the distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, could lead to more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications by improving mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and suppressing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts' active sites in ODHP are classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, with 1-D sites on h-BN edges or BNNTs showing higher propene selectivity than metal oxides. BNNTs have higher propane consumption rates than h-BN. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. Strategies to improve 1-D sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components. Stability is enhanced by designing composites like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and weakens BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH, are identified as high-efficiency active centers. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, with aggregated species more efficient in propane CH bond activation. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active centers. Specific data on spatial distribution and dimensionality, especially for 1-D edge active sites, is lacking but is implied to be significant for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are key in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the significance of understanding 1-D edge active sites. This understanding is essential for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, emphasizing the need to explore the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, as demonstrated by their effectiveness in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation on boron nitride nanosheets.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional structure, facilitates active site exposure and substance transmission, enhancing performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst exhibits excellent activity, selectivity, and stability, with high propylene productivity. The uniform dispersion of h-BN on the SiO2 support ensures good interaction and stability. As h-BN loading increases, propane conversion rises, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The catalyst's one-dimensional structure allows for higher conversion by exposing more active sites. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst shows remarkably higher productivity of olefins than bulk h-BN catalysts and most reported boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and active site exposure.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs enhance propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with a 17% to 28% increase, while decreasing the overall reaction rate from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, improving propene production by up to 18%. This effect is observed even at low boron oxide loadings, demonstrating the efficiency of 1-D edge active sites. The protective mechanism against O2 activation contributes to the design of more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial applications, with maximum propene productivity at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding these properties is key to designing efficient catalysts, especially focusing on 1-D edge active sites for improved commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D edge active sites, particularly the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions by improving olefin selectivity and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique property, distinct from 0D and 2D sites, contributes to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site and the avoidance of highly reactive propyl radicals typical of 0D catalysts, along with the suppression of overoxidation typical of 2D catalysts, are key factors in this improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency in ODHP due to optimized mass and heat transfer facilitated by a thin h-BN layer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, highlighting the role of spatial distribution in catalyst performance. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial configuration of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impacts their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene via radical rebound. DFT studies reveal that zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Challenges include an induction period for active site formation, low edge density limiting activity, and stability issues. Strategies to overcome these include preoxygen modification, reducing BN nanosheet size to increase edge density, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts, like h-BNxIn2O3, improve stability by leveraging the SMOSI effect.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonding with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as the active center for high-efficiency catalysis at low temperatures. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. However, the literature lacks specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the significance of understanding 1-D edge active sites. This understanding can contribute to the design of more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs' basal plane edges with a higher density of defects act as active sites, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, enhancing selectivity to propene when doped with B or P. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, edge B atoms play a critical role in O2 activation, forming BO(H) active sites at the edges of BN. These 1-D edge active sites abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons with O2 assistance, producing dehydrogenated products. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with high selectivity for ODHP, converting propane to propylene with minimal CO2. The BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' properties and mechanisms aids in designing efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, improving performance. The electrospun h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with uniformly dispersed h-BN, shows excellent activity, selectivity, and stability, achieving high propylene productivity. Increased h-BN loading and reaction temperature boost propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits superior olefin productivity compared to bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and active site accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, due to the protective effect against O2 activation, which increases activation energy by approximately 40 kJ/mol. This modification, even at low loadings (0.003 wt% B2O3), blocks combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these properties is key to designing efficient catalysts, especially focusing on 1-D edge active sites for improved commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by improving olefin selectivity and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This 1-D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, distinguishing these catalysts in commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure that enhances mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer on the cordierite are crucial, indicating the importance of the spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs exhibiting higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. The high reactivity, selectivity, and stability of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D B-based edge active sites. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts, such as h-BNxIn2O3, enhance the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, the literature highlights the importance of boron species anchored to the zeolite matrix, which dynamically transform from isolated to aggregated forms, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen-bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are more effective in propane CH bond activation. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form is suggested for constructing highly active boron centers. However, specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, especially 1-D edge active sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications is lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites can enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while doping with B or P enhances selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms can guide the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst, showing superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers enhance substance transmission and expose active sites, improving oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers have adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support, which boosts activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, shows superior activity, selectivity, and stability for ODHP, producing high propylene yields. The catalyst's morphology and h-BN loading effect were studied, revealing increased propane conversion with higher reaction temperatures and h-BN loadings, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits high olefin productivity, surpassing bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high propene selectivity in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by ~40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a small surface functionality fraction is catalytically active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate drops from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, enhancing propene production by up to 18%. Optimal propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could advance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with reactivity influenced by active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure affecting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides such as WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors is essential for designing efficient catalysts, particularly focusing on 1-D edge active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site is pivotal. This unique structure avoids the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals, typical of 0-D single-site catalysts, and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, common in 2-D surface catalysts (quote 9). This property enhances selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications (quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency in ODHP due to optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, highlighting the importance of spatial distribution in enhancing catalyst performance. Optimizing these factors can lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial applications, focusing on mass and heat transfer, active site utilization, and suppression of deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    