Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The spatial distribution, classification, and performance of active sites in B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with emphasis on 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are categorized into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets or BNNTs. These 1-D sites exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, notably BNNTs with over an order of magnitude higher mass-specific propane consumption rate than h-BN. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The 1-D oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN are proposed as active sites for ODHP, with DFT calculations revealing the reaction mechanism involving hydrogen abstraction from propane and radical rebound to form propene. Among the 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Preoxygen modification of edge sites reduces the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size boosts activity, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes strengthens BN catalysts. For stability, h-BNxIn2O3 composite catalysts, utilizing the SMOSI effect, extend catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks specifics on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, it underscores the significance of defect boron sites and aggregated boron species for catalytic efficiency. Aggregated boron species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can significantly contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, despite a lack of literature on spatial distribution and dimensionality effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids are not. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers are significant due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose highly active sites (Quote 1). Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers ensure good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability (Quote 2, 3). The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for ODHP, producing propylene efficiently (Quote 4). Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited (Quotes 10, 11). The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion (Quote 12). This catalyst's productivity under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts (Quote 14).", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified carbon nanotubes (CNTs) in B-based catalysts exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). The modification blocks combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures and increasing activation energy for O2 conversion by 40 kJ/mol. Even at low boron oxide loadings (0.003 wt%), propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, though the overall reaction rate drops from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, improving propene production by up to 18%. Optimal propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered and tetragonal borides have differing boron surface concentrations, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these properties, especially of 1-D edge active sites, aids in designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN (>BOON<) as active sites prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0-D and 2-D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, notably 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer, highlighting the role of the h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion. Understanding and controlling active site distribution can enhance catalyst design for ODHP, focusing on mass and heat transfer optimization, active site utilization, and suppression of deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge active sites in BNNTs and h-BN sheets, significantly influence their performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites offer higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs exhibiting higher mass-specific propane consumption rates than h-BN. The high reactivity, selectivity, and stability of BN materials have led to enhanced propene productivity, making them attractive for commercial ODHP processes. The theory of 1-D edge active sites explains the behavior of 2-D boron materials, with oxygen-terminated armchair edges initially proposed as active sites for ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, and aggregated species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties could enhance catalyst design for more efficient ODHP reactions, addressing commercial application needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is essential for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with high selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, minimizing CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites enhances catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance in ODHP reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional structure, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing activity and selectivity. This is evidenced by the increased propane conversion with higher h-BN loading and reaction temperature, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The catalyst's high productivity of propylene and olefins under high space velocity conditions is attributed to enhanced mass transfer, allowing for easy exposure of active sites. This performance surpasses that of bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts reported for ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a small fraction of surface functionalities (0.003 wt% B2O3) are catalytically active. Propene selectivity increases from 17% to 28%, and productivity peaks at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading, improving propene production by 18%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, active sites, possibly involving boron-oxygen coordination, are critical. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with their density influenced by the crystal structure. Layered borides like NiB and hBN may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these sites, especially 1-D edge active sites, is key to enhancing catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site and the avoidance of overoxidation are key advantages over other catalysts, as evidenced by improved reaction kinetics and product distribution.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The performance of B-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, with 1-D edge sites being crucial. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity in ODHP due to optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer play a significant role in the catalyst's performance, highlighting the importance of spatial distribution of active sites. Optimizing these factors can lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D active sites on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs significantly influence performance in ODHP reactions, offering higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides. BNNTs exhibit higher propane consumption rates than h-BN. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming propene via a surface-stabilized intermediate. DFT studies reveal the zigzag B-terminated edge as more active. Strategies to enhance 1-D active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components. Stability is improved by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, leveraging the SMOSI effect.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for CH bond activation. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich zeolite matrix may construct highly active centers. However, the literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, it underscores the significance of defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) in propane oxidative dehydrogenation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, minimizing CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers, enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, crucial for ODHP reactions. Electrospinning allows for adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support, boosting activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, shows high propylene productivity. Propane conversion rises with temperature and h-BN loading, indicating diffusion isn't limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion. Under high space velocity, the catalyst exhibits superior olefin productivity, surpassing bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide-modified CNTs exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This protective effect, observed even at low boron oxide loadings, increases propene selectivity from 17% to 28%, improving propene production by up to 18%. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, active sites involving boron-oxygen coordination are crucial. Active-site density and electronic interactions between surface BOx species and the subsurface bulk structure affect reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and tetragonal borides like WB may present different boron surface concentrations, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, improving selectivity to olefins and preventing facile overoxidation of propene to COx, crucial for efficient catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity, with its thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Optimizing these factors could enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications by improving mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites more effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets or BNNTs. These 1-D sites exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, particularly BNNTs, which show higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Strategies to enhance 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts, like h-BNxIn2O3, improve stability by strengthening interlayer forces and weakening BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen-bonded with SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts. Understanding their unique properties and reaction mechanisms, especially in 1-D edge active sites, could enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications. Literature lacks insights on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of these sites affect performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups are selective, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. B doping enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance in ODHP reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its 1-D fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. This catalyst exhibits high propylene productivity and propane conversion, which increases with h-BN loading and reaction temperature, indicating no molecular diffusion limitation. The one-dimensional structure allows for higher conversion and remarkable olefin productivity under high space velocity conditions, surpassing bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. A low 0.003wt% boron oxide loading significantly enhances propene selectivity from 17% to 28%, despite a decrease in overall reaction rate, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could optimize catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework's surface contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is crucial, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, affecting BOx species formation and, consequently, catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN (>BOON<) as active sites prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins, addressing the challenge of overoxidation to COx, and contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site and the oxygen molecule bonded to one B and one N act as active sites, improving the overall performance in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst for ODHP exhibits high selectivity and productivity, with a thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, suggesting that the spatial distribution of active sites influences performance. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should consider optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions, with a focus on 1-D edge active sites for potential improvements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, linearly dispersed on the edge of 2-D h-BN sheets or in BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs exhibiting higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially attractive. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. DFT calculations reveal that the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active than other 1-D edge types. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shaped materials. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and weakens BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species are more effective in propane CH bond activation than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect their performance in ODHP. However, it underscores the significance of defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) in ODHP activity. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while B or P doping enhances selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is essential for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites enhances catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional structure, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing catalytic efficiency for ODHP reactions. The uniform dispersion of h-BN on the SiO2 support ensures good interaction, boosting activity, selectivity, and stability. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that the conversion is not diffusion-limited. The catalyst exhibits a high productivity of propylene, significantly outperforming bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer allowing active sites to be easily exposed.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions by blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This modification increases activation energy for O2 conversion by ~40kJmol-1, even at low boron oxide loadings (0.003wt%), indicating that a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the overall reaction rate drops from 4.3 to 3.2mmolg-1h-1, improving propene production by up to 18%. Peak propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, influenced by the crystal structure, which impacts BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered and tetragonal borides have differing boron surface concentrations, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, especially for 1-D edge active sites, is key to designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D edge active sites, like the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by improving selectivity to olefins and preventing the facile overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique property, distinct from 0D and 2D catalysts, stabilizes the propyl radical and suppresses overoxidation, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. [1] highlights the potential of ODHP technology, while [2] underscores the challenge of avoiding overoxidation. [7] proposes the 1-D edge as the active site, and [9] explains its superiority over 0D and 2D sites.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure that enhances mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites on 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, significantly impact performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, with BNNTs showing notably higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene via radical rebound. DFT studies reveal that zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge sites include preoxygen modification to shorten the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability is enhanced by designing composites like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as the active center for efficient ODHP catalysis at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species are more effective in propane CH bond activation than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers, crucial for catalytic efficiency. Understanding these properties and mechanisms, particularly of 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for the activity of propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose 1-D edge active sites with a high density of defects, which are accessible to reactants. These defects, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are selective sites for ODHP. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and mechanisms can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), edge B atoms play a critical role in O2 activation, forming BO(H) active sites at the edges of boron nitride nanosheets. These 1-D edge active sites abstract hydrogen from ethane with O2 assistance, producing ethylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, created by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance in ODHP reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional fibrous structure, facilitates active site exposure and substance transmission, enhancing activity and selectivity. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst allows for adjustable properties and good interaction between nanoparticles and support, ensuring stability and efficiency. The uniform dispersion of h-BN on the SiO2 support contributes to the catalyst's high productivity of propylene. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that the conversion is not diffusion-limited. The one-dimensional structure of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst enables higher conversion by exposing active sites more effectively. Under high space velocity conditions, this catalyst exhibits a productivity of olefins that is notably higher than bulk h-BN catalysts and most reported boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer allowing active sites to be easily exposed.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs enhance propene selectivity in ODHP reactions by blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion, and increasing activation energy for O2 conversion. At a low 0.003wt% boron oxide loading, propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, though the overall reaction rate drops, leading to an 18% increase in propene production. Optimal propene productivity is achieved at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can contribute to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered and tetragonal borides may present different boron surface concentrations, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors is key to designing efficient catalysts, particularly focusing on 1-D edge active sites for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D edge active sites, like the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance selectivity to olefins and prevent overoxidation of propene to COx. This is due to the stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site and the avoidance of highly reactive propyl radicals typical of 0D single-site catalysts, as well as the suppression of overoxidation seen in 2D surface catalysts. These properties contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure, which facilitates mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can enhance catalyst efficiency. For commercial applications, designing efficient B-based catalysts should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial configuration of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impacts their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing notably higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene. DFT studies reveal that the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active than other 1-D edge types. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species anchored to zeolite matrices transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly those with BOH groups hydrogen bonding with SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for catalyzing the reaction, with aggregated species more efficient in propane's CH bond activation than isolated ones. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers, though specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality influence performance, especially for 1-D edge active sites, is lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts, highlighting the importance of understanding 1-D edge active sites. This understanding could lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, despite a lack of literature on how spatial distribution and dimensionality influence performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while doping with B or P enhances selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a pivotal role in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in O2 activation, forming BO(H) active sites at the edges of BN. These 1-D edge active sites abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons, facilitating the production of dehydrogenated products. Understanding these sites' unique properties and mechanisms can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, prepared by electrospinning, exhibits excellent activity, selectivity, and stability due to its one-dimensional fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion. This structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing mass transfer and achieving higher propane conversion and propylene productivity. The catalyst's productivity under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts, attributed to the enhanced mass transfer allowing easy exposure of active sites. The h-BN loading affects the nanofiber diameter and propane conversion, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. These findings highlight the importance of 1-D edge active sites in designing efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with a protective effect against O2 activation, increasing activation energy by 40 kJ/mol. This modification, even at low loadings (0.003 wt%), significantly impacts catalytic activity, demonstrating that few surface functionalities are active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, and productivity peaks at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading, improving propene production by 18%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides such as WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation and, consequently, catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site significantly enhances performance. This unique site avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, improving selectivity to olefins and preventing facile overoxidation of propene to COx, crucial for commercial applications. Understanding these properties contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, notably 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure, which enhances mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can improve catalyst efficiency. For commercial applications, efficient B-based catalyst design should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    