Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The spatial distribution, classification, and performance of active sites in B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with emphasis on 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) feature active sites classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations. 1-D active sites, linearly dispersed on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets or BNNTs, exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts. BNNTs show a significantly higher mass-specific propane consumption rate than h-BN. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts, like h-BNxIn2O3, enhance the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated boron species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites influence performance, but understanding these properties, especially of 1-D edge active sites, is key to designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites can significantly contribute to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, highlighting the need for further research on spatial distribution and dimensionality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids are not. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a pivotal role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' properties and mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 production. The BNO. site, formed by molecular oxygen abstracting hydrogen from BOH groups, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene's oxidation to CO2. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and mechanisms is pivotal for designing efficient commercial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its 1-D structure, facilitates substance transmission and exposes highly active sites, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst exhibits excellent activity, selectivity, and stability for ODHP, with high propylene productivity. The uniform dispersion of h-BN on the SiO2 support ensures good interaction and improves long-term stability. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The one-dimensional structure of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst allows for active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates and productivity under high space velocity conditions, surpassing bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified carbon nanotubes (CNTs) enhance propene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect raises the activation energy for O2 conversion by about 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a minimal surface functionality loading (as low as 0.003 wt%) is catalytically active. Propene selectivity improves from 17% to 28%, though the overall reaction rate decreases, leading to an 18% increase in propene production. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can aid in designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active sites likely being surface-stabilized BOx sites. The crystal structure influences BOx species formation, affecting active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, especially for 1-D edge active sites, is key to designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance olefin selectivity and prevent facile overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique 1-D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, distinguishing BN materials from other catalysts and contributing to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its structure, which optimizes mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Optimizing these factors could enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications by improving mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites in h-BN and BNNTs, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs exhibiting higher mass-specific propane consumption rates than h-BN. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, followed by radical rebound to form propene. Zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D B-based edge active sites. Preoxygen modification of edge sites improves ODHP performance and reduces the induction period, while increasing the edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes enhances catalytic activity. Designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3 can extend the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species are more effective in propane CH bond activation than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, are advantageous in ODHP reactions due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose highly active sites (Quote 1). Prepared by electrospinning, this method allows for the adjustment of chemical and physical properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability (Quotes 2, 3, 9). The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits excellent performance in ODHP reactions, achieving high propylene productivity (Quote 4). The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates (Quote 12). Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrates remarkably higher productivity of olefins compared to bulk h-BN catalysts and other boron-based catalysts (Quote 14), due to enhanced mass transfer allowing easy exposure of active sites (Quote 15).", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with a significant increase from 17% to 28%. This modification blocks combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion and raising O2 activation energy by approximately 40 kJ/mol. A negligible fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active, with propene production improving by up to 18% and maximum productivity at a 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework's surface contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, active sites, possibly involving boron-oxygen coordination, are critical. The reactivity varies due to active-site density and electronic interactions between surface BOx species and the subsurface structure. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and hBN may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges (>BOON<) as active sites prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0-D and 2-D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, crucial for commercial catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, notably 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized mass and heat transfer properties. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, highlighting the importance of spatial distribution in enhancing catalyst efficiency. Optimizing these factors could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications by improving mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. 1-D active sites, linearly dispersed on 2-D h-BN sheets or in BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials exhibit high reactivity, selectivity, and stability, enhancing propene productivity for commercial ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Different 1-D B-based edge active sites, including armchair and zigzag edges, have been studied, with the zigzag B-terminated edge being more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Enhancing the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites through composite catalyst design, such as h-BNxIn2O3, can extend catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active centers. The literature lacks specific data on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of these 1-D edge active sites can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, despite a lack of literature on their spatial distribution and dimensionality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs play a critical role due to their high density of defects, which are accessible to reactants. These defects, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are the active phase in ODHP, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, which abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding this mechanism of 1-D edge active sites is pivotal for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, improving performance. Electrospinning allows for customizable nanofiber properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support, which boosts activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits high propylene productivity. Increasing h-BN loading and reaction temperature boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion isn't limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion. Under high space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst shows remarkable olefin productivity, surpassing bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, thus suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. The protective effect of boron oxide modification against O2 activation is significant, even at low loadings, improving propene production by up to 18%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, influenced by the crystal structure, affecting active-site density. Layered and tetragonal borides have differing boron surface concentrations, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "The 1-D oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN in B-based catalysts, acting as an active site, avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, crucial for designing efficient commercial catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its structure, which optimizes mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Optimizing these factors could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, focusing on mass and heat transfer optimization, active site utilization, and suppression of deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites on 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs exhibiting higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. The high reactivity, selectivity, and stability of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. DFT calculations reveal the zigzag B-terminated edge as the most active 1-D site. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces the affinity of BN bonds to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form is suggested for constructing highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties could lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, despite a lack of literature on how spatial distribution and dimensionality influence performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), edge B atoms play a critical role in O2 activation, forming BO(H) active sites at the edges of BN. These 1-D edge active sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers are advantageous due to their substance transmission facilitation and high active site exposure. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers ensure good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, shows superior activity, selectivity, and stability for ODHP, producing high propylene yields. The catalyst's productivity of olefins under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts, attributed to enhanced mass transfer and active site exposure. This highlights the importance of 1-D edge active sites in designing efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, thus suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect is evident in a higher activation energy for O2 conversion, even at low boron oxide loadings. The modification leads to a 17% to 28% increase in propene selectivity, while the reaction rate decreases, improving overall propene production by up to 18%. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanofibers in B-based catalysts prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV for ODHP. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the open fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, particularly for 1-D edge active sites, is crucial for designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D edge active sites, like the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property improves selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, addressing a key scientific challenge in the chemical industry. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site and the 1-D nature of the edge contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure, which enhances mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can improve catalyst efficiency. For commercial applications, designing efficient B-based catalysts should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. The high reactivity, selectivity, and stability of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Different 1-D B-based edge active sites, including armchair and zigzag edges, have been studied, with the zigzag B-terminated edge being more active. Strategies to improve 1-D active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts, such as h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and weakens the BN bond's affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks specifics on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, it highlights defect boron sites' importance and aggregated boron species' higher efficiency in CH bond activation of propane. Aggregated BOx species, with BOH groups hydrogen bonding with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers, though the literature does not discuss 1-D edge active sites' unique properties or their contribution to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites can significantly contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, despite a lack of literature on how their spatial distribution and dimensionality affect performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, analogous to propane, by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites at the edges of boron nitride. These sites abstract hydrogen from ethane with O2 assistance, producing ethylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, improving performance. The electrospun h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits superior activity, selectivity, and stability, with high propylene productivity. Its 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, increasing propane conversion. At higher h-BN loadings and temperatures, conversion rates rise, indicating efficient mass transfer. This catalyst's productivity under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than most boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and active site accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP, with boron oxide blocking combustion sites and suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect is evident in a 40kJmol-1 higher activation energy for O2 conversion, even at a low 0.003wt% loading. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, and production improves by up to 18%, despite a decrease in overall reaction rate, highlighting the efficiency of 1-D edge active sites. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01wt% B2O3 loading, demonstrating the potential for designing more efficient catalysts by understanding these unique properties and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute significantly to high performance. Understanding these unique properties, especially of 1-D edge active sites, is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions influencing reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure impacting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation and, consequently, catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions by stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property improves selectivity to olefins, addressing the challenge of facile overoxidation of propene to COx, and contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The performance of B-based catalysts in ODHP is influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity, with its thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer play a critical role, indicating the importance of the spatial distribution of active sites. Optimizing these factors could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, focusing on mass and heat transfer, active site utilization, and suppression of deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). 1-D active sites, linearly dispersed on the edge of 2-D h-BN sheets or in BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials exhibit high reactivity, selectivity, and stability, enhancing propene productivity for commercial ODHP processes. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D B-based edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and weakens BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated boron species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane, with uniform anchoring to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix proposed as a method to construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites and their mechanisms can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial use, despite a lack of literature on how spatial distribution and dimensionality influence performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated through hydrogen abstraction of BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, are advantageous in ODHP reactions due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose active sites (Quote 1). Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst exhibits excellent activity, selectivity, and stability, with high propylene productivity (Quote 4). Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited (Quotes 10, 11). The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates (Quote 12).", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with a protective effect against O2 activation, increasing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% and improving production by up to 18%. This effect is observed even at low boron oxide loadings, demonstrating the efficiency of 1-D edge active sites. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanofibers in B-based catalysts prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity for ODHP at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the open fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site significantly improves selectivity to olefins and prevents overoxidation of propene to COx, as observed in 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property, detailed through spectroscopic data, DFT calculations, and oxygen-dependence of kinetics, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications by stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation of adsorbed species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, are crucial. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer facilitated by its thin h-BN layer. The uniform dispersion and thickness of the h-BN layer highlight the importance of spatial distribution in enhancing catalyst performance. For commercial applications, efficient B-based catalyst design should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impacts their performance in ODHP. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. Strategies to improve 1-D edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts, like h-BNxIn2O3, enhance the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to the zeolite matrix transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly those with BOH groups hydrogen bonded to SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for catalyzing the reaction, with aggregated species more efficient in propane's CH bond activation. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers, though the literature lacks specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites influence performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, it underscores the significance of defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) in ODHP activity. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites could enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while doping with B or P enhances selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons, as demonstrated in ethane reactions on boron nitride nanosheets. These edge atoms activate O2, forming BO(H) active sites that abstract hydrogen from ethane, producing ethylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could significantly contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a key commercial application.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, demonstrates superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond in propane, avoiding propylene oxidation to CO2. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "The 1-D h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, prepared by electrospinning, exhibits superior performance in ODHP reactions due to its ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose active sites. The catalyst's activity, selectivity, and stability are enhanced by the good interaction between nanoparticles and support. As h-BN loading increases, propane conversion rises linearly, indicating that molecular diffusion is not limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrates remarkably high productivity of olefins, outperforming bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide-modified carbon nanotubes (CNTs) enhance propene selectivity in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, with a 17% to 28% increase and a 1.1mmolg1h1 decrease in reaction rate, improving propene production by 18%. This effect is observed even at a low 0.003wt% boron oxide loading, demonstrating its protective role against O2 activation and combustion of the carbon framework. The optimal B2O3 loading for maximum propene productivity is 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these properties, especially of 1-D edge active sites, is key to designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN (>BOON<) as active sites prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances olefin selectivity and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The performance of B-based catalysts in ODHP is influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst exhibits high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer play a critical role in the catalyst's performance, highlighting the importance of the spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and suppressing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    