Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The spatial distribution, classification, and performance of active sites in B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with emphasis on 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are categorized into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on the edges of h-BN sheets or BNNTs. These 1-D sites exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, particularly BNNTs, which have over a 10-fold higher mass-specific propane consumption rate than h-BN. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and then propene. Among 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge sites include preoxygen modification to shorten the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for catalyzing ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated boron species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. However, specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, including 1-D edge active sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications is lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial in propane oxidative dehydrogenation, highlighting the significance of understanding 1-D edge active sites. This understanding can contribute to the design of more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are crucial due to their high density of defects accessible to reactants. Doping with B or P enhances selectivity to propene, influenced by the type of heteroatom and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites can abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers are pivotal due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose active sites. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers allow for adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with a fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for ODHP, producing propylene efficiently. Increasing h-BN loading and reaction temperature boosts propane conversion, indicating diffusion isn't limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, increasing conversion. Under high space velocity, the catalyst's productivity of olefins is remarkably higher than bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and exposed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified carbon nanotubes (CNTs) exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP). The modification blocks combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures and increasing activation energy for O2 conversion by ~40 kJ/mol. Even at low boron oxide loadings (0.003 wt%), propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the overall reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may present different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, like the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property improves selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, notably 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to optimized mass and heat transfer. The h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D B-based edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Enhancing the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be achieved by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and weakens BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the importance of defect boron sites in catalyzing the ODHP reaction, with aggregated boron species showing higher efficiency in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Aggregated BOx species, identified as the active center, exhibit high efficiency in catalyzing the ODHP reaction at low temperatures. The literature suggests that uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form could construct highly active boron centers. However, specific information on how the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in ODHP reactions, and how understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to catalyst design, is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding their unique properties and reaction mechanisms, particularly those of 1-D edge active sites, can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, with a high density of defects, are critical. These defects, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are selective for propene production. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances this selectivity, making these sites key to designing efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons, as evidenced by their involvement in O2 activation and the formation of BO(H) active sites on boron nitride nanosheets. These sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, can abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons, leading to the production of olefins. Understanding these unique properties and reaction mechanisms could contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications, including the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with high selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene, minimizing CO2 formation. The BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "The performance of B-based catalysts in ODHP reactions is significantly influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, prepared by electrospinning, facilitates substance transmission and exposes highly active sites, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. Its one-dimensional fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion result in high propylene productivity. The catalyst's morphology and h-BN loading effect were studied, showing increased nanofiber diameter with higher h-BN loading. Propane conversion rises with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The one-dimensional structure boosts active site exposure, leading to higher conversion. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits superior olefin productivity compared to bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer allowing easy exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, due to the protective effect against O2 activation, which increases propene selectivity from 17% to 28% while decreasing the overall reaction rate, leading to improved propene production. The unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites are crucial for designing efficient catalysts for commercial use. A B2O3 loading of 0.01wt% maximizes propene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active sites likely being surface-stabilized BOx sites. The density of these sites and electronic interactions between BOx species and the subsurface bulk structure impact reactivity. Different boride structures can affect BOx species formation, influencing active-site density, which is key to understanding the performance and design of efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site and the oxygen-dependence of the reaction kinetics suggest a fundamentally different reaction mechanism compared to other catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, notably 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer facilitated by its thin h-BN layer. The uniform dispersion and thickness of the h-BN layer are critical, highlighting the role of active site distribution in enhancing catalyst performance. For commercial applications, designing efficient B-based catalysts requires focusing on mass and heat transfer optimization, active site utilization, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. DFT calculations reveal that the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active than other 1-D edge active sites. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shaped materials. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the properties and mechanisms of these 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNF edges with a high density of defects serve as active sites, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, which are selective for propene. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction of BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond in propane, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. This catalyst exhibits high propylene productivity and superior performance compared to bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts. The propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The one-dimensional structure of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst allows for higher conversion and productivity under high space velocity conditions due to enhanced mass transfer and active site exposure.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, thus suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. The protective effect of boron oxide modification against O2 activation is evident, with a significant increase in activation energy. Even at low boron oxide loadings, the propene selectivity notably increases, while the overall reaction rate decreases, leading to improved propene production. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions influencing reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure impacting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN (>BOON<) as active sites prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of spatial distribution. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing these factors and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites in h-BN sheets and BNNTs, significantly impacts their performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates. The high reactivity and stability of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming propene via a surface-stabilized intermediate. DFT studies reveal the zigzag B-terminated edge as the most active. Strategies to improve 1-D active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability can be enhanced by designing composites like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated species during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly those with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, and aggregated species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. However, specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design is lacking in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while B or P doping enhances selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, as observed in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane on boron nitride nanosheets.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst, demonstrating superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers, enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, crucial for ODHP reactions. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers ensure good interaction between nanoparticles and support, boosting activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, excels in ODHP, producing high propylene yields. The catalyst's morphology and h-BN loading impact performance, with conversion rates increasing linearly. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, driving higher conversion. Under high space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, thanks to enhanced mass transfer and exposed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate drops from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, enhancing propene production by up to 18%. Peak propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors is key to optimizing 1-D edge active sites for more efficient catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, unlike 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property, as evidenced by improved selectivity to olefins and reduced overoxidation of propene to COx, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site on this 1-D edge is proposed to be a key factor in the high olefin selectivity observed.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst exhibits high selectivity and productivity in ODHP, with its thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, indicating the importance of the spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites in h-BN sheets and BNNTs, significantly impacts performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates. BN materials exhibit high reactivity, selectivity, and stability, enhancing propene productivity for commercial viability. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and propene via radical rebound. Different 1-D edge active sites, including armchair and zigzag edges, have been studied, with zigzag B-terminated edges being more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts, like h-BNxIn2O3, enhance stability by strengthening interlayer forces and weakening BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly those hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, with aggregated species more efficient in propane's CH bond activation. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, could significantly contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, which expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, are crucial. These defects, acting as active sites, are often quinone or dicarbonyl groups, selective for propene production. B doping enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, created by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers, prepared by electrospinning, enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, crucial for ODHP reactions. These nanofibers, with uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibit superior activity, selectivity, and stability, achieving high propylene productivity. The catalyst's one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, boosting conversion. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and easy exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This modification increases activation energy for O2 conversion by ~40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination plays a critical role, with reactivity influenced by active-site density and electronic interactions between surface BOx species and the subsurface structure. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, impacting the formation of BOx species and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and tetragonal borides like WB may present different boron surface concentrations, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by improving selectivity to olefins and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique property, avoiding the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppressing overoxidation of adsorbed species, distinguishes 1-D sites from 0D and 2D catalysts, contributing to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, notably 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency in ODHP, attributed to optimized mass and heat transfer facilitated by a thin h-BN layer. The uniform dispersion and thickness of the h-BN layer on the cordierite highlight the critical role of spatial distribution in enhancing catalyst performance. For commercial applications, designing efficient B-based catalysts requires optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced through composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the significance of defect boron sites and aggregated boron species in catalyzing the ODHP reaction, with aggregated species showing higher efficiency in CH bond activation of propane than isolated ones. Boron species anchored to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form are crucial for catalytic efficiency, dynamically transforming during the ODHP process, which is closely related to increased activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonding with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as the active center for the ODHP reaction at low temperatures. Enabling uniform anchoring of boron species to a zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers, although specific information on the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Understanding 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties can contribute to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs' basal plane edges with a high density of defects act as active sites, crucial for the reaction. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), particularly through O2 activation and the formation of BO(H) active sites at the edges. These 1-D edge active sites can abstract hydrogen from propane, aided by O2, to produce propylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its 1-D structure, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing catalytic activity and achieving higher propane conversion. This is evidenced by the increased conversion with higher h-BN loading and reaction temperature, indicating that molecular diffusion does not limit the conversion. The catalyst's productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 under 500C at a space velocity of 48000mlgcat1h1 is notably higher than bulk h-BN catalysts and most reported boron-based catalysts, showcasing the efficiency of 1-D nanomaterials in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with a protective effect against O2 activation, increasing activation energy by 40 kJ/mol. This results in improved propene production, up to 18% at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading, demonstrating the efficiency of 1-D edge active sites. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, are critical. Active sites involve boron-oxygen coordination, with reactivity influenced by active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on boride catalysts, with crystal structure affecting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and hBN may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by improving selectivity to olefins and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This 1-D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, making these catalysts more efficient for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure that enhances mass and heat transfer. The h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion on the cordierite are critical, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing notably higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among the 1-D B-based edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to shorten the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP catalysis at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species are more effective in propane CH bond activation than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. The literature highlights the importance of defect boron sites and aggregated species in catalyzing ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of these 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs play a critical role. These edges have a higher density of defects, which are the active phase in ODHP. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances selectivity to propene. Understanding these sites' unique properties and mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a pivotal role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "The performance of B-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional structure, facilitates active site exposure and substance transmission, enhancing activity and selectivity. This catalyst exhibits high productivity of propylene and olefins, with propane conversion increasing with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than that of bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and easy exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, with a protective effect against O2 activation, increasing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% and improving production by up to 18% at a 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. This highlights the efficiency of 1-D edge active sites, suggesting their importance in catalyst design for commercial applications. Only a negligible fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active, indicating the potential for further optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered and tetragonal borides have differing boron surface concentrations, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), significantly enhance performance in ODHP reactions by stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation, unlike 0D and 2D sites. This unique property improves selectivity to olefins, addressing the challenge of overoxidation to COx, and contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity in ODHP reactions, with its thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer highlight the importance of active site distribution in influencing catalyst performance. Optimizing these factors and understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, suppressing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    