Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The spatial distribution, classification, and performance of active sites in B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with emphasis on 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) feature active sites classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, with 1-D sites on the edge of 2-D h-BN sheets or BNNTs showing higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides. BNNTs outperform h-BN in mass-specific propane consumption. The high reactivity and selectivity of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene. DFT studies reveal the zigzag B-terminated edge as the most active. Challenges include an induction period, low edge density, and stability issues. Preoxygen modification reduces the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size improves activity, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes strengthens catalysts. Composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3 enhance stability through the SMOSI effect.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those with BOH groups hydrogen bonded to adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, with aggregated species more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, could enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications, addressing a gap in knowledge about spatial distribution and dimensionality effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs' basal plane edges with a high density of defects act as active sites, where quinone or dicarbonyl groups are selective for propene, unlike unselective carboxylic acids. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in boron nitride nanosheets play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, forming BO(H) active sites at the edges. These 1-D edge active sites activate O2, abstract hydrogen from ethane, and produce ethylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms could lead to the design of more efficient B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, emphasizing the importance of 1-D edge active sites in commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is essential for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers are advantageous due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose active sites (Quote 1). Prepared by electrospinning (Quote 4), these nanofibers exhibit uniform h-BN dispersion on a SiO2 support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, increasing propane conversion (Quote 12), and the catalyst shows high productivity of propylene under high space velocity conditions (Quote 13).", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide-modified carbon nanotubes (CNTs) enhance propene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), demonstrating the protective effect against O2 activation, even at low loadings. This modification increases propene selectivity from 17% to 28% while decreasing the overall reaction rate, improving propene production by up to 18%. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can contribute to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered and tetragonal borides differ in boron surface concentration, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "For B-based catalysts in ODHP, the h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity, with a thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of the spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites, and suppressing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. These linearly dispersed sites on 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, with BNNTs achieving higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction and radical rebound to form propene. Zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D sites. Preoxygen modification reduces the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size boosts activity, and aggregating components into 1-D shapes strengthens catalysts. Composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3 improve 1-D site stability through the SMOSI effect.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the significance of defect boron sites and aggregated boron species in catalyzing the ODHP reaction, with aggregated species being more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated ones. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonding with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency in catalyzing ODHP at low temperatures. Uniform anchoring of boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form is suggested as a method to construct highly active boron centers. However, specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for the activity of propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites and their reaction mechanisms can significantly contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, highlighting the importance of spatial distribution and dimensionality in enhancing performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective, while carboxylic acids are not. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in boron nitride nanosheets play a pivotal role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites at the edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from ethane with O2 assistance, producing ethylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional fibrous structure, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing conversion and selectivity. As h-BN loading increases, propane conversion rises linearly, indicating that molecular diffusion does not limit the reaction. This catalyst exhibits high productivity of propylene and olefins, outperforming bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions, due to enhanced mass transfer and active site availability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, thus suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. The protective effect of boron oxide modification against O2 activation is evident, increasing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% while decreasing the overall reaction rate, leading to improved propene production. The maximum productivity of propene is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors is key to designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, particularly the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), significantly enhance performance. These sites stabilize the propyl radical, avoiding the creation of highly reactive intermediates typical of 0D single-site catalysts, and suppress overoxidation of adsorbed species, common in 2D surface catalysts. This unique property improves selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure that enhances mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer on the cordierite are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D active sites on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs significantly influence performance. These sites offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates. Oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN are proposed as active sites, initiating the reaction by abstracting hydrogen from propane to form propene. DFT calculations reveal that the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. To enhance performance, strategies include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. For stability, composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3 are designed, utilizing the SMOSI effect to strengthen interlayer forces and weaken BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups in BOx species, are crucial for efficient catalysis at low temperatures. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich zeolite matrix improves catalytic efficiency. While the literature highlights the importance of defect boron sites and aggregated species for CH bond activation, it lacks specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, including 1-D edge active sites, influence catalyst performance and contribute to design improvements for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties could lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, despite a lack of literature on the spatial distribution and dimensionality of these sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, which expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, are crucial. These defects, acting as the active phase, include quinone or dicarbonyl groups that are selective to propene, unlike carboxylic acids. B doping enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications, as demonstrated by their function in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation on boron nitride nanosheets.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers are advantageous due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose highly active sites. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers allow for adjustable properties, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support, which enhances activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits high activity, selectivity, and stability for ODHP, producing propylene with remarkable efficiency. The catalyst's productivity of olefins under high space velocity conditions is significantly higher than bulk h-BN catalysts and most reported boron-based catalysts, attributed to enhanced mass transfer and active site exposure facilitated by the 1-D structure.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This modification increases activation energy for O2 conversion by 40kJmol-1, even at low loadings (0.003wt%), indicating catalytic activity from a small fraction of surface functionalities. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate drops, improving propene production by 18%. Peak propene productivity is at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion of boron species on the fiber framework contributes to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation and, consequently, catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D edge active sites, like the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by stabilizing propyl radicals and suppressing overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property improves selectivity to olefins and prevents the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, crucial for commercial catalyst design. As observed in the comparison with V/SiO2 catalysts, the 1-D nature of BN edges offers a fundamentally different reaction mechanism, leading to higher olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure, which facilitates mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can enhance catalyst performance. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites on 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. The high reactivity, selectivity, and stability of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Different 1-D edge active sites, including armchair and zigzag edges, have been studied, with the zigzag B-terminated edge being more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Enhancing the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be achieved by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the significance of defect boron sites and aggregated boron species in catalyzing the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reaction, with aggregated species showing higher efficiency in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Aggregated boron species, identified as the active center, are crucial for catalyzing ODHP at low temperatures. While the spatial distribution and dimensionality's specific influence on performance is not detailed, anchoring boron species uniformly to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form is suggested as a method to construct highly active boron centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. Defective trigonal boron species, like B[3]a and B[3]b, are crucial for activity. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms, particularly of 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while doping with B or P enhances selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), edge B atoms play a critical role in O2 activation, forming BO(H) active sites that abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons, akin to the process observed in ethane dehydrogenation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications, including ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, minimizing CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers enhance substance transmission and expose highly active sites, improving catalytic performance. The electrospinning-prepared h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits superior activity, selectivity, and stability, achieving high propylene productivity. Increased h-BN loading and reaction temperature boost propane conversion, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's enhanced mass transfer allows for easy active site exposure, resulting in a significantly higher productivity of olefins compared to bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high propene selectivity in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a low 0.003 wt% loading of boron oxide significantly impacts catalytic activity. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate drops, enhancing propene production by up to 18%. Optimal propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these properties, especially of 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D edge active sites, particularly the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), significantly enhance performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. These sites improve selectivity to olefins and prevent the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, a key challenge in ODHP. The 1-D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, distinguishing BN materials from other catalysts and contributing to more efficient designs for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer play a critical role, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can enhance catalyst efficiency. For commercial ODHP applications, efficient B-based catalyst design should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts' active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) performance. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs exhibiting higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Different 1-D edge active sites, including armchair, zigzag B-terminated, and zigzag nitride-terminated edges, have been explored, with the zigzag B-terminated edge being more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shaped materials. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts, such as h-BNxIn2O3, which can extend catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP catalysis at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for CH bond activation of propane, with aggregated species outperforming isolated ones. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers, though literature lacks specifics on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts. Understanding their unique properties and reaction mechanisms, particularly in 1-D edge active sites, could lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, despite a lack of literature on how spatial distribution and dimensionality influence performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge active sites, play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons. These sites facilitate O2 activation and the formation of BO(H) active sites, which abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons, leading to the production of olefins. Understanding these unique properties and reaction mechanisms can contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications, including the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers, are advantageous in ODHP reactions due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose active sites. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers allow for adjustable properties and good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits high propylene productivity. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating diffusion is not limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion. Under high space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst shows remarkable olefin productivity, surpassing bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a low 0.003 wt% loading of boron oxide significantly impacts catalytic activity. Propene selectivity increases from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. Peak propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could optimize catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance, highlighting the importance of 1-D edge active sites in designing efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, influenced by the crystal structure, impacting active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and hBN may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), significantly enhance performance by improving selectivity to olefins and preventing the facile overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique property, avoiding the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppressing overoxidation of adsorbed species, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst for ODHP exhibits high selectivity and productivity, with its structure optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the significance of the spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP catalysis at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species are more effective in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, which expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, are critical. These defects, acting as active sites, are enhanced by B doping, improving selectivity to propene. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, whereas carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, particularly in the activation of O2 and formation of BO(H) active sites. These 1-D edge active sites can abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons, leading to the production of dehydrogenated products. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms, especially in 1-D edge sites, is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications, including the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site is dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction of BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaking the CH bond while avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, are advantageous in ODHP reactions due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose highly active sites. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst's chemical and physical properties can be adjusted, ensuring good interaction between nanoparticles and support, which enhances activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits excellent performance in ODHP, achieving high propylene productivity. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates. Under high space velocity conditions, the catalyst's productivity of olefins is remarkably higher than that of bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer allowing easy exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP, with boron oxide blocking combustion sites and suppressing carbon framework combustion. This protective effect, observed at a low 0.003wt% loading, increases propene selectivity to 28% and improves production by 18%, peaking at 0.01wt% B2O3. Only a negligible fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active, highlighting the efficiency of 1-D edge active sites. Understanding these sites could enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance, highlighting the importance of 1-D edge active sites in designing efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions influencing reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure affecting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors is key to designing efficient catalysts with optimized 1-D edge active sites for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure that enhances mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge active sites, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). These 1-D sites, found on the edges of 2-D hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) sheets and in boron nitride nanotubes (BNNTs), offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts. BNNTs exhibit higher mass-specific propane consumption rates than h-BN, enhancing propene productivity. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D B-based edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species anchored to zeolite matrices transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species with BOH groups hydrogen-bonded to SiOH groups are identified as active centers, showing high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specifics on spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, in influencing performance and catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts. While literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites affect performance, understanding these aspects, especially 1-D edge sites, can enhance catalyst efficiency for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Selective sites are quinone or dicarbonyl groups, while carboxylic acids are unselective. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons, including propane, by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites. These sites abstract hydrogen atoms, facilitating the production of olefins. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use, such as in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst in ODHP, demonstrating superior selectivity for propane to propylene conversion with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond in propane, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers significantly enhance oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions by facilitating substance transmission and exposing highly active sites. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers ensure good interaction between nanoparticles and support, boosting activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits high propylene productivity. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating diffusion isn't limiting. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion. Under high space velocity, the catalyst shows remarkable olefin productivity, outperforming bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with 1-D edge sites playing a critical role. Modification blocks combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion and increasing propene selectivity from 17% to 28%, while decreasing the overall reaction rate. This results in improved propene production by up to 18%, with maximum productivity at 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge sites can aid in designing more efficient commercial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions influencing reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure affecting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) acts as an active site. This unique structure prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, improving selectivity to olefins. This insight contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts by enhancing propene selectivity and preventing facile overoxidation to COx, as proposed in Quote 7: 'An oxygen molecule bonded to one B and one N acts as active site for the ODHP reaction.'", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity in ODHP, with its thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer highlight the role of spatial distribution in catalyst performance. Optimizing active site distribution, particularly 1-D edge sites, can enhance catalyst design and reaction mechanisms for commercial ODHP applications, focusing on mass and heat transfer optimization, active site utilization, and suppression of deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    