Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The spatial distribution, classification, and performance of active sites in B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with emphasis on 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing notably higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. These sites' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. DFT calculations reveal that the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active than other 1-D edge types. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to shorten the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts, such as h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species are more effective in propane CH bond activation than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specifics on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts are pivotal in O2 activation and the formation of BO(H) active sites, which abstract hydrogen from ethane to produce ethylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications, emphasizing the importance of these sites in reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, dynamically generated by molecular oxygen abstracting hydrogen from BOH groups, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, prepared by electrospinning, exhibits superior performance in ODHP reactions due to its 1-D structure facilitating active site exposure. This catalyst, with uniformly dispersed h-BN, shows increased propane conversion with higher h-BN loading and reaction temperature, indicating enhanced mass transfer and active site accessibility. Its productivity of olefins under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, highlighting the benefits of 1-D structures in catalysis.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high propene selectivity in ODHP, with boron oxide blocking combustion sites and suppressing carbon framework combustion. This protective effect is evident in a 40kJmol-1 higher activation energy for O2 conversion, observed even at a low 0.003wt% loading. Only a negligible fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. Propene selectivity increases to 28%, and propene production improves by up to 18%, with maximum productivity at a 0.01wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance, highlighting the significance of 1-D edge active sites in designing efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions between surface BOx species and the subsurface structure. Active sites are likely surface-stabilized BOx sites, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may present different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors is essential for designing efficient catalysts, particularly focusing on 1-D edge active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D edge active sites, like the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property improves selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, crucial for commercial catalyst design. [1] ODHP has potential as a game-changing technology, [2] but overcoming facile overoxidation is a key challenge. [7] The proposed active site for ODHP is an oxygen molecule bonded to one B and one N, [8] which may stabilize the propyl radical, [9] avoiding highly reactive propyl radicals and overoxidation of adsorbed species.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to its structure, which optimizes mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites enhances performance. Efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts' active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) performance. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. Strategies to improve 1-D edge active sites include preoxygen modification to shorten the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability is enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups in BOx species hydrogen-bonded with SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency in catalyzing ODHP at low temperatures. While the literature highlights the importance of defect boron sites and aggregated species for CH bond activation, it lacks specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance. Constructing uniformly anchored boron species in oligomeric form on a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix is suggested as a method to create highly active boron centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, it underscores the role of defective trigonal boron species in enhancing activity. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could significantly contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, which expose a high density of defects, are crucial. These defects, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are selective for propene production. Doping with B or P enhances selectivity, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with high selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene in B-based catalysts. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond in propane while avoiding propylene oxidation to CO2. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional structure, facilitates active site exposure and substance transmission, enhancing catalytic activity. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst exhibits excellent activity, selectivity, and stability for ODHP, with high propylene productivity. The uniform dispersion of h-BN on the SiO2 support ensures good interaction and stability. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's one-dimensional structure allows for higher conversion and remarkable olefin productivity under high space velocity conditions, outperforming bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with a protective effect against O2 activation, increasing propene selectivity from 17% to 28% and improving production by up to 18%. This effect is observed even at low boron oxide loadings, demonstrating the efficiency of 1-D edge active sites. The optimal B2O3 loading for maximum propene productivity is 0.01wt%. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance, highlighting the importance of 1-D edge active sites in designing efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is crucial, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors is key to designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site significantly enhances performance. This unique structure avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals, typical of 0-D single-site catalysts, and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, common in 2-D surface catalysts. Consequently, it improves selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency in ODHP due to optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, highlighting the importance of spatial distribution in enhancing catalyst performance. Optimizing these factors can lead to the design of more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, focusing on mass and heat transfer optimization, active site utilization, and suppression of deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are categorized into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing significantly higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to shorten the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Enhancing the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be achieved by designing composite catalysts, such as h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, and aggregated species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers, though specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality influence performance, especially for 1-D edge active sites, is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for activity. While literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites affect performance, understanding these, especially 1-D edge active sites, can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The dynamic generation of the BNO. active site through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen from BOH groups triggers propane dehydrogenation by selectively breaking the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance in ODHP reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, prepared by electrospinning, exhibits excellent activity, selectivity, and stability due to its one-dimensional structure that facilitates active site exposure. This catalyst shows remarkably high productivity of propylene, with propane conversion increasing with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's productivity of olefins under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than that of bulk h-BN catalysts and most reported boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer allowing active sites to be easily exposed.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified carbon nanotubes (CNTs) exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with a protective effect against O2 activation, increasing activation energy by ~40 kJ/mol. This modification, even at low loadings (0.003 wt% B2O3), demonstrates that a negligible fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the overall reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01 wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions influencing reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure impacting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, particularly the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property improves selectivity to olefins and prevents the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity in ODHP reactions, with its thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, are crucial for catalyst performance. Optimizing these factors could enhance catalyst design for ODHP and other reactions. The h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion on the cordierite are key to the catalyst's efficiency, highlighting the importance of active site distribution. Efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP should consider mass and heat transfer optimization, active site utilization, and suppression of deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. These sites' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and propene. DFT calculations reveal that the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active than other 1-D edge sites. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and weakens BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. However, specific literature on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these 1-D edge active sites can significantly contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, which expose basal plane edges with a higher density of defects, are crucial. These defects, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are selective for propene production, unlike unselective carboxylic acids. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the type of heteroatom and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. active site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers are advantageous due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose active sites (Quote 1). Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers allow for adjustable properties and good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability (Quotes 2, 3). The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, shows high propylene productivity and excellent performance in ODHP (Quote 4). The catalyst's morphology and h-BN loading effect were studied, revealing that increased h-BN loading leads to larger nanofiber diameters (Quotes 5-8). Propane conversion rises with temperature and h-BN loading, indicating diffusion is not limiting (Quote 10, 11). The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, boosting conversion (Quote 12). Under high space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst outperforms bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, with enhanced mass transfer exposing active sites (Quotes 13, 14, 15).", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. At 0.003wt% boron oxide, propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate drops, enhancing propene production by up to 18%. Peak propene productivity is at 0.01wt% B2O3. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could optimize catalysts for commercial ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the formation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site on this edge is proposed to be a key factor in achieving high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The performance of B-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) is influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst exhibits high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer play a critical role, indicating the importance of spatial distribution in catalyst efficiency. Optimizing these factors could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications by enhancing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and suppressing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) have active sites classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials exhibit high reactivity, selectivity, and stability, enhancing propene productivity for commercial ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts, like h-BNxIn2O3, enhance the stability of 1-D dispersed active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP at low temperatures. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form creates highly active boron centers. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. The literature lacks specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs' basal plane edges, rich in defects, serve as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids are not. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with high selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, minimizing CO2 formation. The BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' properties and mechanisms aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its 1-D fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing activity and selectivity. This catalyst exhibits high propylene productivity and superior catalytic efficiency under high space velocity conditions, outperforming bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts. The propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that the conversion is not diffusion-limited. The one-dimensional structure of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst allows for enhanced mass transfer, enabling easier exposure of active sites and higher conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by ~40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a minimal surface functionality loading (0.003 wt%) is catalytically active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the overall reaction rate drops, improving propene production by up to 18%. Maximum propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst designs for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions influencing reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, with crystal structure impacting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, particularly the role of 1-D edge active sites, is crucial for designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by improving olefin selectivity and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This 1-D nature avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, making these sites crucial for the design of efficient commercial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, notably 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized mass and heat transfer, facilitated by a thin h-BN layer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of this layer are critical, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can enhance catalyst efficiency. For commercial ODHP applications, efficient B-based catalyst design should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites on h-BN sheets and BNNTs, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. DFT calculations reveal that different 1-D B-based edge active sites, including armchair and zigzag edges, influence the reaction, with the zigzag B-terminated edge being more active. Challenges include an induction period for active site formation, low edge density limiting catalytic activity, and stability issues. Strategies to overcome these include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts, like h-BNxIn2O3, enhance stability by leveraging the SMOSI effect.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are key in catalyzing the ODHP reaction, with aggregated species more efficient in CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers, though specific information on spatial distribution and dimensionality's influence on performance is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties can contribute to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, which expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, are crucial. These defects, acting as active sites, are enhanced by doping with B or P, improving propene selectivity at isoconversion. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, whereas carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "The performance of B-based catalysts in ODHP reactions is influenced by the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, prepared by electrospinning, facilitates substance transmission and exposes highly active sites, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. Its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion lead to high propylene productivity. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating no diffusion limitation. The one-dimensional structure facilitates active site exposure, boosting conversion. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst exhibits superior productivity of olefins compared to bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a low 0.003 wt% loading of boron oxide significantly impacts catalytic activity. Propene selectivity increases from 17% to 28%, while the overall reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could optimize catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is crucial, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding these properties and mechanisms, especially of 1-D edge active sites, aids in designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "For ODHP, h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalysts exhibit high selectivity and productivity, with a thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, indicating the importance of the spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are categorized into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on the edges of hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) sheets or boron nitride nanotubes (BNNTs). These 1-D sites exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, particularly BNNTs, which have a higher mass-specific propane consumption rate. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge sites include preoxygen modification to shorten the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated species during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen-bonded with SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. While literature highlights the importance of defect boron sites and aggregated species in catalyzing ODHP, it lacks specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for activity. Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, especially of 1-D edge active sites, affect performance. Understanding these could enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, which serve as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while doping with B or P enhances selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons, as evidenced by their involvement in O2 activation and the formation of BO(H) active sites at the edges of boron nitride nanosheets. These 1-D edge active sites can abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons with O2 assistance, highlighting their importance in the design of efficient catalysts for commercial applications, including the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. active site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites enhances catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly influence performance. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its 1-D fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. This catalyst exhibits high propylene productivity and propane conversion, which increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The 1-D structure allows for higher conversion by exposing active sites more effectively. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrates remarkably higher productivity of olefins compared to bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer and active site accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP, with propene selectivity increasing from 17% to 28% and overall reaction rate decreasing from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, improving propene production by up to 18%. The protective effect of boron oxide modification against O2 activation is evident, with only a negligible fraction of surface functionalities being catalytically active. This highlights the importance of understanding 1-D edge active sites for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanofibers in B-based catalysts prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODHP reactions. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute significantly to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination at active sites is critical, with reactivity influenced by active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure affecting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges (BOON) as active sites prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property, as evidenced by improved selectivity to olefins and distinct reaction kinetics, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts, addressing the challenge of overoxidation and enhancing commercial applications. [7] [9]", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure, which enhances mass and heat transfer. The h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion are critical, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    