Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The spatial distribution, classification, and performance of active sites in B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with emphasis on 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts for ODHP feature active sites classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on h-BN edges or BNNTs. These sites offer higher propene selectivity than conventional catalysts, particularly BNNTs, which exhibit higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene. Strategies to improve 1-D sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability is enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and weakens BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, the literature highlights the significance of boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix, which dynamically transform from isolated to aggregated forms, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen-bonded with SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are more effective in propane CH bond activation. However, the literature lacks specific information on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for the activity of propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications, highlighting the importance of their unique properties and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Selective sites are quinone or dicarbonyl groups, while carboxylic acids are unselective. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst, showing superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly influence performance. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional fibrous structure, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing activity and selectivity. This catalyst exhibits excellent performance in ODHP reactions, with high propylene productivity, due to its ability to easily expose active sites, as evidenced by its high propane conversion rates at varying temperatures and h-BN loadings. The productivity of olefins under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than that of bulk h-BN catalysts and other boron-based catalysts, highlighting the efficiency of the one-dimensional h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, with a protective effect against O2 activation, increasing activation energy by 40 kJ/mol. This effect is observed even at low boron oxide loadings (0.003 wt%), indicating that a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the overall reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01 wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions influencing reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure impacting BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, especially for 1-D edge active sites, is key to designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by improving selectivity to olefins and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique property, as evidenced by improved reaction kinetics and product distribution compared to supported vanadia catalysts, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. The 1-D nature of these sites avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure, which facilitates mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "Active sites in B-based catalysts for ODHP are classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites on the edges of h-BN sheets and BNNTs showing higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts. BNNTs exhibit higher mass-specific propane consumption rates than h-BN. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming propene. Zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3 enhance stability by strengthening interlayer forces and weakening BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species are more effective in propane CH bond activation than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. While the literature does not detail the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, it highlights the importance of defect boron sites and aggregated species in catalyzing ODHP.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, it underscores the significance of defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs' basal planes, with a high density of defects, are crucial. These defects, acting as active sites, enhance selectivity to propene when doped with B or P, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers enhance substance transmission and active site exposure, improving catalytic performance (Quote 1). Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers exhibit excellent activity, selectivity, and stability for ODHP, with high propylene productivity (Quote 4). The uniform dispersion of h-BN on SiO2 support in the fibrous structure facilitates active site exposure, increasing propane conversion (Quote 9, 12). Higher h-BN loading and reaction temperatures boost conversion, indicating efficient molecular diffusion (Quote 10, 11). The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst's one-dimensional structure and high productivity under high space velocity conditions (Quote 13) outperform bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts (Quote 14), demonstrating enhanced mass transfer and active site accessibility (Quote 15).", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs enhance propene selectivity in ODHP reactions by blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect increases propene selectivity from 17% to 28%, despite a decrease in overall reaction rate, leading to improved propene production of up to 18%. Optimal propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination at active sites, including 1-D edges, is critical. Active-site density and electronic interactions between surface BOx species and the subsurface bulk structure affect reactivity. Crystal structure influences BOx species formation, impacting active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, are crucial. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity, with its thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer significantly impact the catalyst's performance, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can enhance catalyst design for ODHP. Efficient B-based catalysts for commercial applications should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are categorized into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on h-BN sheets or BNNTs. These 1-D sites exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, particularly BNNTs, which have a higher mass-specific propane consumption rate. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and then propene. DFT calculations reveal the zigzag B-terminated edge as the most active 1-D site. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly BOH groups in BOx species hydrogen-bonded with SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, especially 1-D edge active sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for the activity of propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications, despite limited literature on the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, which expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, are critical. These defects, particularly quinone or dicarbonyl groups, are selective for propene production. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances selectivity, influenced by the type of heteroatom and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, prepared by electrospinning, exhibits excellent activity, selectivity, and stability due to its 1-D fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion. The catalyst's productivity of propylene is notably high, surpassing that of bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, enhancing conversion rates. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic efficiency, likely due to enhanced mass transfer allowing for easier exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by about 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a minimal surface functionality loading (0.003 wt% B2O3) is catalytically active. Propene selectivity jumps from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate drops from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, boosting propene production by up to 18%. Peak propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could optimize catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation, impacting active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site is crucial. It avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property improves selectivity to olefins and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to its optimized mass and heat transfer properties. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, highlighting the role of spatial distribution in enhancing catalyst performance. Optimizing these factors could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. 1-D active sites, linearly dispersed on the edges of h-BN sheets or BNNTs, exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing notably higher propane consumption rates. The high reactivity, selectivity, and stability of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced through composite catalyst design, such as h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated species during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen bonded with SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers. While literature lacks specifics on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites influence performance, it highlights the importance of defect boron sites and suggests that uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich matrix may construct highly active centers. Understanding these properties, especially of 1-D edge active sites, is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for activity. Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, especially of 1-D edge sites, affect performance. Understanding these could enhance catalyst design and reaction mechanisms for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, especially at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is vital for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, minimizing CO2 formation. The dynamic BNO. site, generated by molecular oxygen abstracting hydrogen from BOH groups, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites aids in designing efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional fibrous structure, facilitates active site exposure and substance transmission, enhancing activity and selectivity. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst exhibits excellent stability and high propylene productivity. The h-BN loading affects propane conversion, with higher loadings leading to increased conversion, indicating no molecular diffusion limitation. The one-dimensional structure of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst enables higher conversion by exposing active sites more effectively. Under high space velocity conditions, this catalyst shows remarkably higher productivity of olefins than bulk h-BN catalysts and most reported boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer allowing active sites to be easily exposed.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with selectivity increasing from 17% to 28% and overall reaction rate decreasing from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, improving propene production by up to 18%. The protective effect of boron oxide against O2 activation is evident, even at low loadings of 0.003 wt%, demonstrating the catalytic activity of a negligible fraction of surface functionalities. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01 wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanofibers in B-based catalysts prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV in ODHP reactions. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the 1-D edge active site, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhances performance in ODHP reactions by improving olefin selectivity and preventing propene's facile overoxidation to COx. This site avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, distinguishing it from 0D and 2D catalysts. Understanding these unique properties is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst exhibits high selectivity and productivity in ODHP, with its structure optimizing mass and heat transfer. The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, are crucial for catalyst performance. Optimizing the h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion enhances the catalyst's efficiency, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can improve catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications. Efficient B-based catalysts should consider mass and heat transfer optimization, active site utilization, and suppression of secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge sites in h-BN sheets and BNNTs, significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions. These 1-D sites exhibit higher selectivity for propene and greater mass-specific propane consumption rates than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs outperforming h-BN. The high reactivity, selectivity, and stability of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequently propene. Different 1-D B-based edge active sites, including armchair and zigzag edges, have been studied, with the zigzag B-terminated edge being more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts, such as h-BNxIn2O3, which improves catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP at low temperatures. Aggregated boron species are more effective in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form may construct highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for activity. Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites affect performance, but understanding these, especially 1-D edge sites, can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D edge active sites on CNFs, which expose a high density of defects, are crucial. These defects, notably quinone or dicarbonyl groups, act as the active phase. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding these sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient commercial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in O2 activation, forming BO(H) active sites that abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons, leading to the production of olefins. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites could enhance the design of more efficient catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, a key commercial application.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional fibrous structure, facilitates substance transmission and exposes highly active sites, enhancing catalytic activity, selectivity, and stability. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst ensures good interaction between nanoparticles and support, leading to higher propane conversion and propylene productivity. The uniform dispersion of h-BN on the SiO2 support and the one-dimensional structure contribute to the catalyst's high productivity of olefins under high space velocity conditions, surpassing bulk h-BN catalysts and most reported boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions. This superior performance is attributed to enhanced mass transfer and active site exposure, making the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst an efficient choice for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a minimal surface functionality loading (0.003 wt%) is catalytically active. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the overall reaction rate drops from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, improving propene production by 18%. Peak propene productivity is at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient commercial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures enhance catalytic activity by preventing diffusion limitations and ensuring high performance at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute significantly to their efficiency. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more effective commercial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, particularly the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by improving olefin selectivity and preventing overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique property, avoiding the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppressing overoxidation typical of other catalysts, is pivotal for designing efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity in ODHP, with its thin h-BN layer optimizing mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, indicating the importance of spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions, with 1-D edge active sites potentially offering further improvements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts' active sites, classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP). 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs exhibiting higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. To improve 1-D BN edge active sites, strategies include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks specifics on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, it highlights defect boron sites and aggregated boron species as crucial for catalyzing the ODHP reaction, with aggregated species being more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. There's a suggestion that uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may enhance catalytic activity. No information was found on 1-D edge active sites or their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect their performance in ODHP. However, it underscores the significance of defective trigonal boron species in ODHP activity. Comprehending the unique properties and mechanisms of these sites, notably 1-D edge active sites, is pivotal for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts activate O2, forming BO(H) active sites that abstract hydrogen from ethane, producing ethylene. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites could enhance catalyst design for propane oxidative dehydrogenation, improving commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. active site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance in ODHP reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its 1-D structure, facilitates substance transmission and exposes highly active sites, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst exhibits excellent performance for ODHP, with high propylene productivity. The uniform dispersion of h-BN on the SiO2 support ensures better catalytic efficiency, especially under high space velocity conditions. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. The one-dimensional structure of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates and productivity compared to bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high selectivity for propene in ODHP reactions, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. The protective effect of boron oxide modification against O2 activation is evident, with a negligible fraction of surface functionalities being catalytically active. Propene selectivity increases from 17% to 28%, and productivity peaks at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%, highlighting the importance of understanding 1-D edge active sites for designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on these fibers contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is crucial, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, influenced by the crystal structure, impacting active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, affecting BOx species formation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "The 1-D oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site in B-based catalysts enhances performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions by stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation, improving selectivity to olefins. This unique property is crucial for designing efficient catalysts, as it prevents the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, a key challenge in the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions, with 1-D edge active sites playing a crucial role. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer, highlighting the importance of the h-BN layer's thickness and uniform dispersion. Understanding and controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can lead to improved catalyst design for ODHP and other reactions, emphasizing the need for efficient mass and heat transfer, active site utilization, and suppression of secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge active sites, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. These 1-D sites, found on the edges of 2-D hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) sheets and in boron nitride nanotubes (BNNTs), exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates than h-BN. The theory of 1-D edge active sites explains the high reactivity and selectivity of BN materials, leading to enhanced propene productivity suitable for commercial applications. DFT calculations reveal that the reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Different 1-D B-based edge active sites, including armchair and zigzag edges, have been explored, with the zigzag B-terminated edge being more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shaped materials. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts, such as h-BNxIn2O3, which can extend catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "The literature highlights the significance of defect boron sites and aggregated boron species in catalyzing the ODHP reaction, with aggregated species showing higher efficiency in CH bond activation of propane. BOH groups in aggregated BOx species, hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as the active center for the ODHP reaction at low temperatures. Uniform anchoring of boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form is suggested as a method to construct highly active boron centers. However, specific information on how the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "The literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect their performance in ODHP. However, it underscores the significance of defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) in enhancing activity. Understanding 1-D edge active sites and their mechanisms could lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is pivotal for designing efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D structures, significantly impact performance in ODHP reactions. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its 1-D fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, facilitates active site exposure, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. Propane conversion increases with higher reaction temperatures and h-BN loading, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. This catalyst exhibits high productivity of propylene and olefins, outperforming bulk h-BN and most reported boron-based catalysts, due to enhanced mass transfer allowing easy exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs enhance propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, demonstrating the influence of B-based catalysts. The modification blocks combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion and protecting against O2 activation. This results in improved propene production, with selectivity increasing from 17% to 28% and overall reaction rate decreasing from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, leading to an 18% increase in propene production. The optimal B2O3 loading for maximum propene productivity is 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is crucial for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, affecting BOx species formation and, consequently, catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site enhances propene selectivity and prevents facile overoxidation to COx, addressing a key challenge in the chemical industry. This unique property, compared to 0D and 2D catalysts, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts by stabilizing the propyl radical and suppressing overoxidation of adsorbed species, making it a promising approach for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly influence performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure that enhances mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Optimizing these factors can lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, suppressing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    