Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the spatial distribution and dimensionality (1-D, 2-D, and 3-D) of active sites in B-based catalysts influence their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions, and how does understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, contribute to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The spatial distribution, classification, and performance of active sites in B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), with emphasis on 1-D edge active sites and their implications for catalyst design and reaction mechanisms.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "B-based catalysts' active sites, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, offer higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming propene via a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate. DFT studies reveal that zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Preoxygen modification of edge sites reduces the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size boosts catalytic activity, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes strengthens BN catalysts. The stability of 1-D active sites is improved by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which enhances catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated boron species, particularly those hydrogen-bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, with aggregated species more efficient in CH bond activation of propane than isolated species. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for activity. While literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites affect performance, understanding these aspects, especially 1-D edge sites, could enhance catalyst efficiency for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge active sites, play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons. These sites activate O2 and form BO(H) active centers, which abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons like ethane, producing olefins. Understanding these mechanisms can guide the design of more efficient catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, highlighting the importance of 1-D edge active sites in commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, are advantageous in ODHP reactions due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose active sites. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst exhibits excellent activity, selectivity, and stability, with high propylene productivity. The uniform dispersion of h-BN on the SiO2 support enhances catalytic efficiency, especially under high space velocity conditions, due to enhanced mass transfer and active site exposure. The catalyst's performance, including propane conversion, is influenced by h-BN loading and reaction temperature, indicating that conversion is not diffusion-limited. Its productivity of olefins is notably higher than that of bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP, with selectivity increasing from 17% to 28% and overall reaction rate decreasing from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, improving propene production by up to 18%. This effect is observed even at low B2O3 loadings of 0.003wt%, demonstrating the catalytic activity of a negligible fraction of surface functionalities. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active sites likely being surface-stabilized BOx sites. The crystal structure influences BOx species formation, affecting active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and hBN may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, especially for 1-D edge sites, is key to designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, particularly the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), significantly enhance performance. This 1-D site avoids the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, improving selectivity to olefins and preventing facile overoxidation of propene to COx, crucial for commercial applications. Understanding these unique properties contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts significantly impact their performance in ODHP reactions, particularly the 1-D edge active sites. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized structure, which facilitates mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are critical, suggesting that controlling the spatial distribution of active sites can enhance catalyst efficiency. For commercial applications, designing efficient B-based catalysts should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. 1-D active sites, linearly dispersed on the edge of 2-D h-BN sheets or in BNNTs, exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, with BNNTs showing higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among the 1-D edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to enhance 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shaped materials. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be improved by designing composite catalysts, such as h-BNxIn2O3, which can extend catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form is a promising method for constructing highly active boron centers. The literature lacks specific details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts affect ODHP performance. However, defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for activity. Understanding 1-D edge active sites and their mechanisms can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids are not. Doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites abstract hydrogen from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst, showing superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, generated by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation to CO2. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers enhance substance transmission and expose active sites, improving performance. The electrospun h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with uniformly dispersed h-BN, exhibits high propylene productivity and stability. Increasing h-BN loading and reaction temperature boosts propane conversion, indicating no diffusion limitation. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion. Under high space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst shows remarkable olefin productivity, outperforming bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high propene selectivity in ODHP, with selectivity increasing from 17% to 28% and overall reaction rate decreasing from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, leading to an 18% improvement in propene production. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active sites likely being surface-stabilized BOx sites. Active-site density and electronic interactions between surface BOx species and the subsurface bulk structure affect reactivity. Crystal structure influences BOx species formation, impacting active-site density. Layered borides may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides, affecting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN (>BOON<) as active sites prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "For B-based catalysts in ODHP, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, are critical. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst exhibits high selectivity and productivity due to its optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer play a significant role in the catalyst's performance, highlighting the importance of controlling the spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets or BNNTs. These 1-D sites exhibit higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxide catalysts, particularly BNNTs, which have higher mass-specific propane consumption rates than h-BN. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and weakens BN bond affinity to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated ones during the reaction, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH groups, are identified as high-efficiency active centers for ODHP at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers. However, specific data on how spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance and contribute to catalyst design is lacking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODHP), defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for activity. Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, especially of 1-D edge active sites, affect performance. Understanding these could enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding these unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with superior selectivity for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene, minimizing CO2 formation. The BNO. site, dynamically generated by molecular oxygen abstracting hydrogen from BOH groups, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, 1-D nanomaterials like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers are advantageous due to their substance transmission facilitation and high active site exposure (Quote 1). Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers exhibit excellent activity, selectivity, and stability, with high propylene productivity (Quote 4). The uniform dispersion of h-BN on the SiO2 support (Quote 9) and the one-dimensional structure enhance active site exposure, leading to higher propane conversion (Quote 12). Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst shows a productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 at 500C (Quote 13), significantly outperforming bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with a negligible fraction of surface functionalities being catalytically active. The protective effect of boron oxide against O2 activation, evident by a 40kJmol-1 higher activation energy for O2 conversion, suppresses the combustion of the carbon framework at high temperatures. This results in an increase in propene selectivity from 17% to 28% and an improved production of propene by up to 18% at a B2O3 loading of 0.01wt%, highlighting the potential of 1-D edge active sites in designing efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions impacting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, influenced by the crystal structure, affecting active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of oxygen-terminated armchair edges of BN (>BOON<) as active sites prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site and the oxygen-dependence of the reaction kinetics suggest a fundamentally different reaction mechanism compared to other catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst for ODHP exhibits high selectivity and productivity due to its structure, which optimizes mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer play a critical role in the catalyst's performance, highlighting the importance of the spatial distribution of active sites. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions, with particular attention to 1-D edge active sites for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts, active sites classified as 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D significantly impact oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) performance. 1-D active sites, found on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets and BNNTs, exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxides, with BNNTs showing notably higher propane consumption rates. These sites' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable for ODHP. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and propene. DFT studies reveal the zigzag B-terminated edge as the most active. To improve 1-D sites, preoxygen modification reduces the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size boosts activity, and aggregating components into 1-D shapes strengthens catalysts. Stability is enhanced in h-BNxIn2O3 composites, where the SMOSI effect between In2O3 and h-BN improves interlayer force and reduces O· affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, isolated boron species transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with SiOH, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for ODHP catalysis, with aggregated species more efficient in propane CH bond activation. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers, contributing to efficient catalyst design.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties could significantly contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, despite limited literature on spatial distribution and dimensionality effects.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, serving as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping with B or P boosts propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge sites could lead to more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, leading to ethylene production. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites is essential for designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with negligible CO2 formation. The BNO. site, dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites enhances catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, are advantageous in ODHP reactions due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose highly active sites. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst allows for adjustable properties and ensures good interaction between nanoparticles and support, enhancing activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its fibrous structure and uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits high propylene productivity. The catalyst's morphology and h-BN loading effect were studied, showing increased propane conversion with higher reaction temperatures and h-BN loading, indicating no molecular diffusion limitation. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates. Under high space velocity conditions, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst demonstrates remarkable olefin productivity, surpassing bulk h-BN and most boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high propene selectivity in ODHP, with boron oxide blocking combustion sites and suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures. This protective effect raises O2 activation energy by about 40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a negligible fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. Propene selectivity increases from 17% to 28% with B2O3 loading, improving propene production by up to 18%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework's surface contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active-site density and electronic interactions affecting reactivity. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested boride catalysts, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these factors, especially for 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer, enhanced by a thin, uniformly dispersed h-BN layer. The thickness and uniformity of this layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Efficient B-based catalyst design for commercial ODHP should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are classified into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites linearly dispersed on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets or BNNTs. These 1-D sites exhibit higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts, particularly BNNTs, which show higher mass-specific propane consumption rates. BN materials' high reactivity, selectivity, and stability enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and propene via radical rebound. DFT studies reveal that zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than other 1-D edge types. Challenges include an induction period for active site formation, low edge density limiting catalytic activity, and stability issues. Preoxygen modification reduces the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size improves activity, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes strengthens catalysts. Composite catalysts, like h-BNxIn2O3, enhance 1-D active site stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as efficient active centers at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for catalyzing ODHP, with aggregated species more effective in propane CH bond activation. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich zeolite matrix may construct highly active centers. The literature lacks specific data on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, including 1-D edge sites, influence performance, but highlights the importance of aggregated boron species and defect sites in enhancing catalytic efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of these 1-D edge active sites can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids favor complete oxidation. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites contributes to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites, particularly at 1-D edges. These sites facilitate hydrogen abstraction from propane with O2 assistance, producing propylene. Understanding the unique properties and mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites is essential for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications, as demonstrated by their effectiveness in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation on boron nitride nanosheets.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, exhibits superior selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The active BNO. site, formed by hydrogen abstraction from BOH groups by molecular oxygen, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites' unique properties and reaction mechanisms is crucial for designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like h-BN/SiO2 nanofibers, are pivotal in ODHP reactions due to their enhanced substance transmission and active site exposure. Prepared by electrospinning, these nanofibers allow for adjustable properties and strong nanoparticle-support interaction, boosting activity, selectivity, and stability. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with uniform h-BN dispersion, exhibits superior performance in ODHP, achieving high propylene productivity. Catalyst morphology and h-BN loading impact the nanofiber's diameter, with increased loading leading to larger diameters. Propane conversion rises with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating diffusion is not a limiting factor. The 1-D structure facilitates active site exposure, driving higher conversion rates. Under high space velocity, the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst shows remarkable olefin productivity, outperforming bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit high propene selectivity in ODHP, with selectivity increasing from 17% to 28% and overall reaction rate decreasing from 4.3 to 3.2 mmol/g/h, improving propene production by up to 18%. This effect is observed even at low boron oxide loadings (0.003 wt%), indicating that a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at a B2O3 loading of 0.01 wt%. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could enhance catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active sites likely being surface-stabilized BOx sites. The crystal structure influences BOx species formation, affecting active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), 1-D edge active sites, specifically the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<), enhance performance by improving selectivity to olefins and preventing facile overoxidation of propene to COx. This unique property, avoiding the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppressing overoxidation, contributes to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to its structure, which optimizes mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, indicating the importance of active site distribution. Optimizing these factors could enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications by improving mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites more effectively, and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), active sites are categorized into 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D configurations, with 1-D sites on the edges of 2-D h-BN sheets or BNNTs showing higher selectivity for propene than conventional metal oxides. BNNTs exhibit over a 10-fold higher propane consumption rate than h-BN. The high reactivity, selectivity, and stability of BN materials enhance propene productivity, making them commercially viable. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a propyl intermediate and then propene. DFT studies reveal that zigzag B-terminated edges are more active than armchair or nitride-terminated edges. Strategies to improve 1-D edge sites include preoxygen modification to shorten the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shapes. Stability is enhanced by designing composites like h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens interlayer forces and reduces oxygen affinity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species dynamically transform into aggregated ones, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly BOH groups hydrogen bonded with adjacent SiOH groups, serve as active centers for efficient ODHP catalysis at low temperatures. Defect boron sites are crucial for the reaction, and aggregated boron species are more efficient in CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix in oligomeric form is a feasible method to construct highly active boron centers.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation activity in B-based catalysts. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites and their unique properties can contribute to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, which are the active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on the carbon surface are selective sites, while doping with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a crucial role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons, as demonstrated in ethane's conversion to ethylene. These 1-D edge active sites activate O2, forming BO(H) sites that abstract hydrogen from ethane, a mechanism potentially applicable to propane. Understanding these unique properties and reaction mechanisms can guide the design of more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride, a metal-free catalyst, excels in propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene with minimal CO2 formation. The BNO. site, dynamically generated by molecular oxygen abstracting hydrogen from BOH groups, selectively breaks the CH bond, avoiding propylene oxidation. Understanding 1-D edge active sites enhances catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, with its one-dimensional structure, facilitates substance transmission and exposes highly active sites, enhancing activity and selectivity. The electrospinning method ensures good interaction between nanoparticles and support, improving long-term stability. As h-BN loading increases, propane conversion rises linearly, indicating no molecular diffusion limitation. The one-dimensional structure of the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst leads to higher conversion by exposing more active sites. Under high space velocity conditions, this catalyst exhibits a productivity of 24.9golefinsgBN1h1 at 500C, significantly higher than bulk h-BN catalysts and most reported boron-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide-modified CNTs exhibit enhanced propene selectivity in ODHP reactions, with a significant increase from 17% to 28%. This modification blocks combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion at high temperatures and improving propene production by up to 18%. The protective effect of boron oxide is evident in the higher activation energy for O2 conversion. Only a small fraction of surface functionalities are catalytically active, as demonstrated by the effect observed at a low 0.003wt% loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites could lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitations and ensure high catalytic activity at high WHSV, thanks to the uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, affecting active-site density and electronic interactions. Surface-stabilized BOx sites form on all tested borides, with crystal structure influencing BOx species formation and active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides like WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation. Understanding these properties, especially of 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) acts as an active site, avoiding the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppressing overoxidation of adsorbed species, typical issues with 0D and 2D sites. This unique property enhances olefin selectivity and prevents facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, especially 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency in ODHP due to optimized mass and heat transfer. The thickness and uniform dispersion of the h-BN layer are crucial, highlighting the role of spatial distribution in catalyst performance. Optimizing active site utilization and suppressing deep oxidation secondary reactions are key considerations for designing efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"},
{"DOC": "The spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites in B-based catalysts, particularly 1-D edge active sites, significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) reactions. These 1-D sites are linearly dispersed on the edges of 2-D hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) sheets and boron nitride nanotubes (BNNTs), offering higher propene selectivity than conventional metal oxide catalysts. BNNTs exhibit higher mass-specific propane consumption rates than h-BN, enhancing propene productivity for commercial applications. The reaction mechanism involves hydrogen abstraction from propane, forming a surface-stabilized propyl intermediate and subsequent radical rebound to produce propene. Among different 1-D B-based edge active sites, the zigzag B-terminated edge is more active. Strategies to improve 1-D BN edge active sites include preoxygen modification to reduce the induction period, increasing edge density by reducing BN nanosheet size, and aggregating active components into 1-D shaped materials. The stability of 1-D dispersed active sites can be enhanced by designing composite catalysts, such as h-BNxIn2O3, which strengthens the interlayer force and weakens the affinity of the BN bond to oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00728_1"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP reactions, isolated boron species anchored to a zeolite matrix transform into aggregated species during the process, enhancing catalytic activity. Aggregated BOx species, particularly those hydrogen bonded with SiOH groups, are identified as active centers with high efficiency at low temperatures. Defect boron sites and aggregated species are crucial for CH bond activation of propane. Uniformly anchoring boron species to a hydroxyl-rich MFI-type zeolite matrix may construct highly active boron centers, though literature lacks specifics on spatial distribution and dimensionality's influence on performance. Understanding these sites, especially 1-D edge active sites, is essential for designing more efficient catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.02.017"},
{"DOC": "Defective trigonal boron species (B[3]a and B[3]b) are crucial for propane oxidative dehydrogenation in B-based catalysts. Literature lacks details on how spatial distribution and dimensionality, especially of 1-D edge active sites, affect catalyst performance. Understanding these aspects can enhance catalyst design for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.03.021"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, CNFs expose basal plane edges with a high density of defects, acting as active sites. Quinone or dicarbonyl groups on these edges are selective for propene, while carboxylic acids are not. Doping CNFs with B or P enhances propene selectivity at isoconversion, influenced by the heteroatom type and precursor. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can improve catalyst design and reaction mechanisms for commercial applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cssc.201402363"},
{"DOC": "Edge B atoms in B-based catalysts play a critical role in the oxidative dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons, including propane, by activating O2 and forming BO(H) active sites. These sites, particularly 1-D edge active sites, can abstract hydrogen from hydrocarbons with the assistance of O2, facilitating the production of dehydrogenated products. Understanding these unique properties and reaction mechanisms is key to designing more efficient catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700725"},
{"DOC": "Edge-hydroxylated boron nitride acts as a metal-free catalyst with high selectivity for propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene, minimizing CO2 formation. The active BNO. site is dynamically generated through hydrogen abstraction by molecular oxygen, selectively breaking the CH bond without oxidizing propylene to CO2. Understanding these 1-D edge active sites aids in designing more efficient B-based catalysts for commercial ODHP applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201700004"},
{"DOC": "1-D nanomaterials, like the h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber catalyst, are advantageous for ODHP reactions due to their ability to facilitate substance transmission and expose highly active sites. Prepared by electrospinning, this catalyst exhibits excellent activity, selectivity, and stability, with high propylene productivity. The h-BN/SiO2 nanofiber's one-dimensional structure enhances active site exposure, leading to higher conversion rates. Propane conversion increases with reaction temperature and h-BN loading, indicating no molecular diffusion limitation. The catalyst's productivity under high space velocity conditions is notably higher than bulk h-BN and other boron-based catalysts, attributed to enhanced mass transfer and easy exposure of active sites.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202100476"},
{"DOC": "Boron oxide modified CNTs exhibit enhanced selectivity for propene in ODHP, with borate and phosphate blocking combustion sites, suppressing carbon framework combustion. This modification increases activation energy for O2 conversion by ~40 kJ/mol, demonstrating that a low loading of boron oxide (0.003 wt%) significantly impacts catalytic activity. Propene selectivity rises from 17% to 28%, while the reaction rate decreases, improving propene production by up to 18%. The maximum propene productivity is achieved at 0.01 wt% B2O3 loading. Understanding 1-D edge active sites can lead to more efficient catalyst design for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.200901826"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, 1-D nanofibers with open pore structures prevent diffusion limitation and ensure high catalytic activity, especially at high WHSV. The uniform dispersion and stability of boron species on the fiber framework contribute to high performance. Understanding the unique properties and reaction mechanisms of 1-D edge active sites can aid in designing more efficient catalysts for commercial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63809-3"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for ODHP, boron-oxygen coordination is critical, with active sites likely being surface-stabilized BOx sites. The crystal structure influences BOx species formation, affecting active-site density. Layered borides like NiB and TiB2 may have different boron surface concentrations than tetragonal borides such as WB and Co2B, impacting BOx species formation and, consequently, the catalyst's performance in ODHP reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201701140"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the 1-D nature of the oxygen-terminated armchair edge of BN (>BOON<) as an active site prevents the creation of highly reactive propyl radicals and suppresses overoxidation of adsorbed species, unlike 0D and 2D catalysts. This unique property enhances selectivity to olefins and mitigates the facile overoxidation of propene to COx, contributing to the design of more efficient catalysts for commercial applications. The stabilization of the propyl radical by the nitroxyl radical site on this 1-D edge is key to achieving high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1126/science.aaf7885"},
{"DOC": "In B-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), the spatial distribution and dimensionality of active sites, particularly 1-D edge sites, significantly impact performance. A h-BN wash-coated cordierite monolithic catalyst demonstrates high efficiency due to optimized mass and heat transfer facilitated by its thin h-BN layer. The uniform dispersion and thickness of the h-BN layer are critical, highlighting the role of active site distribution in enhancing catalyst performance. For commercial applications, efficient B-based catalyst design should focus on optimizing mass and heat transfer, utilizing active sites effectively, and minimizing secondary reactions of deep oxidation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2018.12.028"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    