<quotes>
[1] "Our research, then, looks in detail at the thermodynamics of the dehydrogenation of C3H8 by CO2 as a potential prospect for CO2 utilisation in temperature and reaction conditions where the ultimate application of solar thermal energy may be a promising technology."
[2] "The dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 is an attractive catalytic route for C3H6 production."
[3] "The results showed that an increase in the C3H8 partial pressure produced an inhibition of C3H8 conversion but, importantly, a promising enhancement of C3H6 selectivity."
[4] "The dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2 can be significantly affected by various competing side reactions which are deleterious to the targeted C3H6 yield, selectivity and indeed to the stability of the operating catalyst."
[5] "The availability of active sites on the catalyst surface does indeed play a critical role in the reaction system."
[6] "From Figure 2, however, the attractive option that the Gibbs free energy changes of CO2 reaction becomes increasingly favourable by moving to higher members of the alkane homologous series."
[7] "In order to fully understand the thermodynamic basis of the dehydrogenation of C3H8 in the presence of CO2, in connecting also with the solar thermal technology which is normally set close to 500 in the form of high pressure steam, the standard change of reaction in Gibbs free energy, of the dehydrogenation of C2-C4 alkanes with CO2 utilisation ( ), were calculated in the temperature range of 300-500."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The dehydrogenation of propane by carbon dioxide is considered a promising method for CO2 utilization due to its attractiveness in producing propylene. Increasing the propane partial pressure leads to a decrease in propane conversion but simultaneously enhances propylene selectivity. Various competing side reactions negatively impact the yield and selectivity of the final products, as well as the catalyst's stability. The availability of active sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for the reaction system. Thermodynamically, the process of dehydrogenating propane in the presence of CO2 becomes more favorable at higher alkane homologous series members. In order to fully comprehend the thermodynamic fundamentals of this process, the standard change of reaction in Gibbs free energy for the dehydrogenation of propane and other C2-C4 alkanes using CO2 was calculated within the temperature range of 300-500 degrees Celsius, aligning with the typical solar thermal energy application conditions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
利用二氧化碳脱氢制丙烷是CO2利用的一个有吸引力的方法，因为它可以生产丙烯。增加丙烷分压导致丙烷转化率降低，但同时提高了丙烯的选择性。各种竞争性副反应对最终产物的产率、选择性和催化剂稳定性产生负面影响。催化剂表面活性位点的可用性对于反应系统至关重要。从热力学角度看，将丙烷在CO2存在的条件下脱氢的过程，在更高的烷烃同系物系列成员中变得越来越有利。为了全面理解这一过程的基本热力学原理，计算了300-500摄氏度范围内的脱氢反应在300-500度内，对于C2-C4烷烃和使用CO2的利用，标准反应在吉布斯自由能的变化。
