<quotes>
Nitrous oxide introduced into the reaction medium was partly utilized for ethane oxidation and it was also directly decomposed to N2 and O2 over iron modified catalysts. The activity for N2O decomposition of iron modified zeolites was reported earlier [12] and it has been found that concentration of iron cations affects the rate constant significantly.
Regarding the above, both the number of iron ions introduced into the zeolites ZSM-5 matrix was affected by the Si/Al ratio and it was found to be equal to 1.4, 0.4 and 0.09 wt.% of Fe for Si/Al ratio 25, 50 and 100, respectively (Table 1).
Taking into consideration that the first reaction step both for N2O decomposition and for hydrocarbon ODH requires N2O activation with the subsequent formation of active oxygen species O*, one could expect that iron complexes of similar structure should be responsible both for N2O decomposition and ODH reaction, as consistent with the suggestion of Kondratenko and Pe rez-Ramirez [3]. However, one has to consider that active oxygen species formed over different iron complexes may indicate different susceptibilities for interac- tion with subsequent reagents (according to Eqs. (2)(4)).
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Iron modified zeolites show activity for ethane oxydehydrogenation in the presence of nitrous oxide as an oxidant, while iron compounds impregnated on amorphous silicaalumina or silica do not show any activity for ODH reaction.
2. Iron complexes accommodated in channels of ZSM-5 zeolite show the highest activity for ODH reaction.
3. Iron complexes generated in silicalite of MFI structure and activated under the same conditions as Fe-ZSM-5 do not show any activity for ODH reaction. This indicates that not only crystalline structure but also the net charge of the zeolite matrix plays a significant role in the formation of active iron complexes.
4. The use of nitrous oxide as an oxidant for ethane oxydehydrogenation results in simultaneous, effective nitrous oxide utilization.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 铁改性沸石显示出在含氮氧化物作为氧化剂的情况下，对于轻烷烃脱氢氧化的活性，而以非结晶二氧化硅或硅酸盐为载体的铁化合物则不显示任何脱氢氧化活性。
2. 沸石MFI结构中的通道中容纳的铁复合物显示出最高的脱氢氧化活性。
3. 在与Fe-ZSM-5相同条件下激活的MFI结构的硅铝酸盐中产生的铁复合物未显示出任何脱氢氧化活性。这表明除了晶格结构之外，沸石骨架的净电荷也对形成活性铁复合物起着重要作用。
4. 使用氮氧化物作为氧化剂进行轻烷烃脱氢氧化同时有效地利用了氮氧化物。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
