<quotes>
[1] "The effects of Zr doping on the atomic and electronic properties of the ceria(111) surface are studied using first-principles density functional theory with the inclusion of on-site Coulomb interaction."
[2] "It is found that (i) Zr doping induces a severe distortion of the unreduced surface structure; (ii) at the reduced Zr-doped ceria(111) surface, the oxygen anions around the oxygen vacancy show much larger displacements than those on the pure CeO2(111) surface; (iii) an oxygen vacancy is more easily formed around the Zr dopant, and the reduction energy is lowered by about 0.5 eV; (iv) the excess electrons left by the removed oxygen atom localize on the two Ce cations neighboring the vacancy and thus brings about the reduction of the two Ce4+ ions; and (v) the atomic structure modification induced by the Zr doping plays a vital role in facilitating the reduction of the ceriazirconia solid solution as compared to the pure ceria."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study investigates the impact of Zr doping on the atomic and electronic characteristics of ceria(111) surfaces through first-principles density functional theory with on-site Coulomb interaction. Key findings include:
(i) Zr doping significantly alters the surface structure.
(ii) Oxygen anions around an oxygen vacancy on the Zr-doped surface exhibit greater displacements compared to the pure CeO2(111) surface.
(iii) Oxygen vacancies form more readily around Zr dopants, reducing the formation energy by approximately 0.5 eV.
(iv) The removed oxygen atom's excess electrons localize on two adjacent Ce ions, resulting in the reduction of these Ce4+ ions.
(v) The modified atomic structure due to Zr doping facilitates the reduction of the ceriazirconia solid solution more effectively than pure ceria.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究通过第一原理密度泛函理论和局域电荷相互作用，探讨了Zr掺杂对铈(111)表面的原子和电子性质的影响。主要发现包括：
（i）Zr掺杂显著改变了表面结构。
（ii）Zr掺杂表面中氧空位周围的氧阴离子相对于纯CeO2(111)表面显示出更大的位移。
（iii）在Zr掺杂点附近更容易形成氧空位，形成能降低了约0.5 eV。
（iv）移除的氧原子的多余电子局部化在与空位相邻的两个铈离子上，导致这些铈4+离子的还原。
（v）由于Zr掺杂引起的原子结构改变，在与纯铈相比时，促进了铈锆固溶体的还原。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
