<quotes>
[1] "It is found that (i) Zr doping induces a severe distortion of the unreduced surface structure; (ii) at the reduced Zr-doped ceria(111) surface, the oxygen anions around the oxygen vacancy show much larger displacements than those on the pure CeO2(111) surface; (iii) an oxygen vacancy is more easily formed around the Zr dopant, and the reduction energy is lowered by about 0.5 eV; (iv) the excess electrons left by the removed oxygen atom localize on the two Ce cations neighboring the vacancy and thus brings about the reduction of the two Ce4+ ions; and (v) the atomic structure modification induced by the Zr doping plays a vital role in facilitating the reduction of the ceriazirconia solid solution as compared to the pure ceria."
[2] "The relaxation of CeO2(111) surface is quite small and the addition of the Hubbard U parameter for stoichiometric ceria has no significant consequences."
[3] "The relaxed structure of the reduced,undoped CeO2(111) surface is shown in Fig. 3, where the position of the vacancy is labeled by a V. Upon full relaxation,the surface structure is severely perturbed and thus the ini- tial symmetry of the three Ce ions around the vacancy is broken as found by Nolan et al. [25]."
[4] "The effects of Zr doping on the electronic structure can be seen in the DOSs for the unreduced and reduced Ce0.75Zr0.25O2(111) (the Vb model) in Fig. 5c and d. It is found that the DOSs for the Ce0.75Zr0.25O2(111) and the CeO2(111) systems are very similar, which suggests that the Zr doping has no obvious effect on the electronic structure when the O vacancy is created."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The research focuses on the effects of Zr doping on the atomic and electronic properties of the ceria(111) surface. Zr doping leads to a severe distortion of the surface structure, particularly in the vicinity of the dopant. Oxygen vacancies are more easily formed near the Zr dopant, reducing the reduction energy by about 0.5 eV. Excess electrons from the removed oxygen atom localize on the two Ce cations adjacent to the vacancy, leading to their reduction. The atomic structure changes induced by Zr doping play a crucial role in facilitating the reduction of the ceria-zirconia solid solution compared to pure ceria. The addition of the Hubbard U parameter for stoichiometric ceria does not have significant consequences. The structure of the reduced CeO2(111) surface is severely perturbed, breaking the initial symmetry of the three Ce ions around the vacancy. The effects of Zr doping on the electronic structure are minimal, as the DOSs for the unreduced and reduced Ce0.75Zr0.25O2(111) and CeO2(111) systems are similar.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究主要关注了锆掺杂对铈氧化物(111)表面的原子和电子性质的影响。锆掺杂导致表面结构严重扭曲，尤其是在掺杂中心附近。氧空位更容易在锆掺杂点附近形成，降低还原能约0.5 eV。从被移除的氧原子中释放出的多余电子会局部化在与空位相邻的两个铈离子上，导致它们的还原。由锆掺杂引起的原子结构变化在促进铈锆氧化物固溶体的还原方面起着关键作用，相较于纯铈氧化物。对于等摩尔量的铈氧化物，添加Hubbard U参数对其没有显著影响。减去的CeO2(111)表面结构严重扰动，破坏了三个铈离子围绕空位的初始对称性。锆掺杂对电子结构的影响较小，未观察到明显差异，因为未掺杂的Ce0.75Zr0.25O2(111)和CeO2(111)系统的电子密度图相似。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
