<quotes>
[1] "The work makes use of two separate in situ reactor setups: one that utilizes a powder-containing, plug-flow reactor setup that combines on-line activity measurements with the simultaneous recording of in situ UVVis and Raman spectroscopy data and a second setup consisting of a flow-through cell using a pressed pellet sample that has been developed so that it is possible to perform catalytic reactions with on-line product monitoring at the outlet (mass spectrometer) while performing in situ high-energy resolution fluorescence detected (HERFD) X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements."
[2] "The majority of literature work mainly concentrates on the characterization of catalyst systems before and after only one dehydrogenation cycle; the study of Pa- dro et al. in which multiple regeneration steps were employed is the only notable exception."
[3] "The addition of Sn decreases the Pt particle size and thus creates more centers on the surface available for CO adsorption. However, the lower amount of CO observed here suggests that Sn partially covers those centers as observed in our predicted models based on the EXAFS analysis."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The research employs two in situ reactor setups for studying the dehydrogenation catalysts: a powder-containing plug-flow reactor for online activity measurement with UVVis and Raman spectroscopy, and a flow-through cell with a pressed pellet sample for monitoring products and performing X-ray absorption spectroscopy.

2. Most previous studies focused on catalyst characterization before and after a single dehydrogenation cycle. The study by Pador et al. is an exception that utilized multiple regeneration steps.

3. The presence of Sn leads to smaller Pt particle sizes, creating more CO adsorption sites. However, the reduced CO amount indicates that Sn partly covers these sites, as predicted by EXAFS analysis.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 研究采用了两种原位反应器设置：用于在线活性测量和同时记录原位紫外可见光谱和拉曼光谱数据的粉末包含分流反应器，以及用于监测出口产物并进行原位高能分辨率荧光检测X射线吸收光谱（XAS）测量的流过式细胞使用压制颗粒样本。

2. 大多数文献工作主要集中在催化剂系统在单个脱氢化周期前后进行表征；Pador等人进行的研究是唯一采用多次再生步骤的显著例外。

3. 添加Sn导致Pt颗粒尺寸减小，从而在表面上创造了更多的CO吸附点。然而，观察到的较低CO量表明Sn部分覆盖了这些点，这与基于EXAFS分析的预测模型相符。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
