<quotes>
Chen et al. reported that nickel molybdates were active for ODH-O2 and in particular the α-NiMoO4 phase exhibited an enhanced yield compared to NiO and β-NiMoO4.224 Physical grinding of Mo and Ni precursors also led to the absence of NiO in α-NiMoO4 when compared to the analogous co-precipitation technique. It was shown that NiMoO4 had enhanced ODH-O2 performance when comparing mesoporous to bulk catalysts, but only due to the enhanced number of active sites related to the increased surface area, and not the improved mass transfer properties that usually accompany mesoporosity.225 The mesoporous catalysts had a lower specific productivity due to the loss of MoO3 from the surface of the catalysts during synthesis. This confirmed that MoO3 exhibits favourable activity to NiMoO4 for the ODH-O2 reaction (Table 10, entry 7).NiO has been found to be detrimental to ODH-O2 selectivity, favouring overoxidation products. Nb was found to be a superior dopant for NiO based catalysts, due to a reduction in the surface concentration of electrophilic O species and increased surface acidity. However, propene was still not the major product over NiO at around 10% conversion,226 suggesting that NiO-based catalysts are limited in their application for ODH-O2. In comparison to Nb-NiO catalysts, α-NiMoO4 showed a selectivity of 75% at roughly 10% conversion, with propene being the major product at similar conversions to Nb-NiO. The NiO-polyoxometalates have been shown to stabilise the adsorbed oxygen at the surface, which would limit overoxidation,227 leading to the conclusion that NiO oxygen is too labile to achieve a high selectivity. When undertaking surface polymeric phosphate modification of NiO nanoparticles (NiO-SPP), an increase in selectivity of 23 times for NiO-SPP's at isoconversion was shown (Table 10, entry 5).228 This is due to the polymeric phosphates weaker interaction with propene when compared to NiO nanoparticles, leading to a higher desorption rate and therefore higher selectivity.CeO2 was found to be a selective catalyst when HCl was added to the gas feed with O2.229 O2 was hypothesised to have filled the oxygen vacancies at the surface, forming O22 species, which mediated the oxidation of Cl to Cl radicals and resulted in high conversion and selectivity to propene. Once again, radical driven routes showed a high selectivity of 72% and conversion of 52% when the CeO2 was combined with 8 wt% NiO as NiO was shown to enhance the Cl surface coverage which in turn enhanced the route to selective conversion of propane (Table 10, entry 9). Ni was confirmed to increase oxygen vacancies when incorporated into the CeO2 lattice, leading to an increase in active sites.230 XPS studies showed O vacancies doubled in concentration over 250 min, causing the selectivity to drop to 25.2%. Whilst oxygen vacancies are necessary to activate oxygen, they decreased selectivity in the absence of HCl,231 which is why CeO2 was shown to have a much lower selectivity without the presence of HCl; a change of active species from oxygen vacancies to Cl radical like species, has been shown to increase selectivity without a large detrimental effect on conversion. However, the space time yields observed are significantly lower than the most active ODH-O2 catalysts.Co-Based catalysts have been investigated for ODH-O2, but their performance is also limited and vastly inferior to V- or B-based catalysts. However, Wang et al. developed a Co3O4/ZIF-8 catalyst that could operate at 250 C, which is about 200 C lower than the operating temperature for many ODH-O2 catalysts.232 Such low temperature activity warrants further investigation, but the reported space time yield of 7.2 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 10, entry 1) is relatively low for an ODH-O2 catalyst. Tanasoi et al. investigated various mixed metal oxides derived from layered double hydroxide precursors. CoMgAlOx exhibited the highest propene yield, but the propene selectivity was limited due to an increase in cracking, which then led to overoxidation.233 There was no correlation between reducibility and catalyst performance, suggesting that redox properties are not rate-determining in these ODH-O2 catalysts. Unfortunately, the balance of acid and base sites was not measured, so a possible correlation in this respect was not identified.Although CrOx-based catalysts have been widely investigated for DDH and ODH-CO2, there is limited research available for CrOx-catalysts for ODH-O2. Some CrOx-type catalysts have been shown to form propene, with the selective phase being Cr5O12 when supported on nano-crystalline MgO.234 The space time yield was calculated to be 11.3 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 10, entry 4), which is significantly less than Cr catalysts for DDH and about equivalent to the performance of CrOx catalysts for ODH-CO2. When supported on carbon nanotubes, the presence of Cr2O3 increased the CO active sites on the carbon nanotubes, whilst also increasing propene desorption,235 suggesting that Cr promotes the functionality of the carbon active centre.Nanocarbons are an emerging field of catalysts for alkane dehydrogenation. Frank et al. showed that propane can be activated by surface oxygen groups on oxidised carbon nanotubes, noting that sp2 hybridised carbon species are selective and stable for ODH-O2, and that carbon nanotubes provide a balance between reactivity (sp3) and stability (sp2).236 Nanocarbons also show high selectivity to alkenes when compared to metal oxides, but the intrinsic activity is lower. And additional feature of nanocarbons is that they are tuneable; N or B doping within the lattice leads to a change in electronic structure which can influence intrinsic catalytic activity, whilst changing surface functionality can influence selectivity. For example, adding B2O3 to the surface inhibits the activity of electrophilic oxygen species which promote overoxidation. Interestingly, this is one of the first examples of using B2O3 for ODH-O2, where it acts to inhibit the activity through functionalisation of the surface, leading to an increased selectivity. More recently, Qi et al. confirmed the ketonic carbonyl groups to be the active site for general ODH reactions, whilst also confirming the effects of B2O3.237 The unique chemical structure of nanocarbons means that the reaction mechanism does not operate under a Mars-van Krevelen or LangmuirHinshelwood route. In situ characterisation and measurements proved vital to finding the reaction mechanism for nanocarbons; in situ experiments for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethylbenzene using nanocarbons showed the redox cycle of carbonyl-hydroxyl groups being the basis for the reaction mechanism.Recently, Cao et al. discovered that graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4) are highly selective to propene (75%) at a moderate conversion of 12.8%. Additionally, selectivity to ethene was 15%, meaning total olefin selectivity was around 90%. The highest STY was measured at 515 C to be 4.0 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 10, entry 11). g-C3N4 is analogous to graphite in structure, as is h-BN. The rate dependence of propane was first order, which is different to h-BN, but it was found to be the same as h-BN regarding the rate dependence of oxygen. DFT calculations suggested this first-order rate dependence of propane was due to simultaneous H abstraction by carbonyl species, which are similarly distant from one another when compared with the distance between the CH bonds in propane. The simultaneous H abstraction would therefore lead to a lower concentration of the C3H7* reaction intermediate, as well as an increased O2/O* ratio and therefore a lower likelihood of overoxidation.238 This new route to propene shows promise and enhances our understanding of selectivity patterns. The materials were shown to be activated in a similar way to h-BN, forming the proposed active site, i.e., carbonyl bonds, on the surface under oxidative conditions. Under these oxidative conditions, the surface area increased from 8.9 m2 g1 to 78.1 m2 g1, due to the formation of mesopores at the surface. The large increase in surface area when compared to the starting material, was a large factor in obtaining the high activity.While supported precious metal clusters are amongst the most researched class of catalyst for DDH (and are used in some industrial processes) their application in ODH-O2 has been relatively limited. Preliminary research into supported Pt metal clusters for ODH-O2 was reported in the early 90s, with studies comparing particle-support interactions and the influence of supports on the reaction. Notably, Hubbard et al. reported Pt/ZrO2 showed at least one order of magnitude higher activity than Pt/γ-Al2O3.239 This is due to γ-alumina seemingly deactivating the Pt, which was confirmed due to the small Pt particles on γ-alumina having a higher reduction temperature when compared to bulk Pt.To achieve high activity in supported metal catalysts, the dispersion of the supported metal must be optimised in order to maximise the number active centres and allow efficient use of the precious metal itself, which is often the most expensive component of the catalyst. Additionally, particle size and activity may not scale linearly. Vajda et al. reported that supported under-coordinated Pt810 clusters were highly active for ODH-O2.240 The activity of the catalyst in this study was shown to be much larger than the more commonly used vanadia-based catalysts, whilst showing a higher selectivity. The key to an increased activity was due to the under-coordinated Pt cluster strongly adsorbing the propane when compared to an extended Pt surface, confirmed by catalytic data which was in agreement with DFT. DFT showed a significant weakening of the CH bond when propane interacts with under-coordinated Pt clusters in comparison to Pt(111) surface.Combining Pt clusters with Sn showed increased productivity due to the electron transfer between the Pt and Sn which were in close proximity. 0.5Pt5Sn/Si-beta exhibited a STY of 40 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 10, entry 12).241 PtSn catalysts were characterised via C3H8-TPD and C3H6-TPD. In comparison to 0.5Pt/Si-Beta and 5Sn/Si-beta, 0.5Pt5Sn/Si-beta showed that the combination of the Pt and Sn led to a stronger adsorption of propane to allow for increased activity and propene desorbed more readily, leading to the understanding that propene would not be further oxidised to COx products due to a higher rate of desorption. It was also found that PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts showed an increased conversion when oxygen was introduced into the gas feed (compared to DDH conditions).242 This was due to the oxygen reacting with hydrogen to form water and driving the equilibrium towards propene formation. Conversion largely depended on the C3H8:O2 ratio: an increase in propane conversion was found with an increase in O2 concentration relative to propane concentration, but too high an oxygen concentration caused overoxidation to COx. The activity and selectivity were much higher for PtSn/SAPO-34  a yield of 72.4% as compared to a 1015% yield for most V based catalysts. Introducing oxygen into the feed also reduced the formation of coke, which is a feature of instability in DDH. Water formed via ODH-O2 was found to reduce stability, by increasing sintering of Pt due to a weaker metalsupport interaction.242 PtSn catalysts are of course widely studied for DDH and are found in industrial catalysts, as described above.In summary, a variety of different catalysts have been shown to be active and selective for ODH-O2. While vanadia- and boron-based catalysts comprise a large proportion of the reports to date, Ni-based catalysts have shown promise, particularly NiO-CeO2. Mo-Based catalysts also prominently feature but are currently limited in comparison to analogous metal oxide catalysts, with low propene selectivity at moderate propane conversion. Graphitic carbon nitride, g-C3N4, although much less active than NiOx per kg, exhibited high selectivity to olefins at moderate propane conversion and may warrant further investigation to maximise performance. High surface area, porous C3N4 may be a strong candidate to produce an active and selective catalyst.ODH-O2 offers many inherent advantages as the reaction is exothermic, thermodynamically unlimited and avoids formation of coke. Overall, extensive research into VOx-based catalysts has been undertaken, with the clear limitation being overoxidation to COx products, but recent developments with one-step preparations and grafting techniques have improved catalyst performance to be comparable with the most active DDH Pt- and CrOx catalysts. Deep oxidation remains a challenge for VOx and other supported metal oxides. However, it is clear than B-based catalysts, although recently developed and less understood in both structure and mechanism, have clear potential for commercialisation due to the high selectivity at high propane conversion. Additionally, ethene is formed as a secondary product. Many B-based catalysts have similar, if not higher, STYs compared to DDH catalysts. Furthering the understanding of the reaction mechanism is essential to developing more efficient catalysts, and this appears to be the focus of recent research in the literature.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The ultrafast zeolite crystallization strategy developed by Yu et al. addresses the time-scale mismatch challenges in direct synthesis procedures for metal encapsulation by rapidly forming zeolite structures, thereby reducing the time required for metal encapsulation within the zeolite matrix. This method allows for faster integration of metals into the zeolite framework, optimizing the dispersion of metal clusters and maximizing the number of active sites. By doing so, the formation, structure, and catalytic performance of PtSn clusters within ZSM-5 zeolites are improved. The mesoporous structure of the catalyst enhances the surface area and the number of active sites, leading to enhanced propane conversion. However, the mesoporous catalysts have a lower specific productivity due to the loss of MoO3 from the surface during synthesis. This confirms that MoO3 exhibits favorable activity compared to NiMoO4 for the ODH-O2 reaction. Nickel oxide (NiO) is found to be detrimental to ODH-O2 selectivity, favoring overoxidation products. Nitrogen (Nb) was identified as a superior dopant for NiO-based catalysts, reducing the surface concentration of electrophilic oxygen species and increasing surface acidity. However, propene was not the major product over NiO at around 10% conversion, suggesting that NiO-based catalysts are limited in their application for ODH-O2. In comparison, α-NiMoO4 showed a selectivity of 75% at roughly 10% conversion, with propene being the major product at similar conversions to Nb-NiO. The addition of polymeric phosphate to NiO nanoparticles (NiO-SPP) led to an increase in selectivity by 23 times at isoconversion, due to the weaker interaction of polymeric phosphates with propene compared to NiO nanoparticles, resulting in a higher desorption rate and thus higher selectivity. Ceria (CeO2) was found to be a selective catalyst when hydrogen chloride (HCl) was added to the gas feed with oxygen (O2). Oxygen was hypothesized to fill the oxygen vacancies at the surface, forming O22 species that mediate the oxidation of chlorine (Cl) to Cl radicals, leading to high conversion and selectivity to propene. Nickel (Ni) was confirmed to increase oxygen vacancies when incorporated into the ceria lattice, leading to an increase in active sites. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) studies showed that the concentration of oxygen vacancies doubled in concentration over 250 minutes, causing the selectivity to drop to 25.2%. Oxygen vacancies are necessary to activate oxygen, but they decreased selectivity in the absence of HCl, which is why ceria had a much lower selectivity without the presence of HCl; a change of active species from oxygen vacancies to Cl radical-like species has been shown to increase selectivity without a large detrimental effect on conversion. The space-time yields observed for ceria-based catalysts are significantly lower than the most active ODH-O2 catalysts. Cobalt (Co)-based catalysts have been investigated for ODH-O2, but their performance is limited and inferior to vanadium (V)- or boron (B)-based catalysts. However, Wang et al. developed a Co3O4/ZIF-8 catalyst that could operate at 250°C, which is about 200°C lower than the operating temperature for many ODH-O2 catalysts. This low-temperature activity warrants further investigation, but the reported space-time yield of 7.2 molC3H6 kgcat-1 h-1 (Table 10, entry 1) is relatively low for an ODH-O2 catalyst. Tanasoi et al. investigated various mixed metal oxides derived from layered double hydroxide precursors, with cobalt (Co), magnesium (Mg), and aluminum (Al) exhibiting the highest propene yield but limited selectivity due to increased cracking, leading to overoxidation. There was no correlation between reducibility and catalyst performance, suggesting that redox properties are not rate-determining in these ODH-O2 catalysts. Unfortunately, the balance of acid and base sites was not measured, so a possible correlation in this respect was not identified. Although chromium oxide (CrOx)-based catalysts have been widely investigated for dehydrogenation and oxidative dehydrogenation with carbon dioxide (ODH-CO2), there is limited research available for CrOx-catalysts for ODH-O2. Some CrOx-type catalysts have been shown to form propene, with the selective phase being Cr5O12 when supported on nano-crystalline magnesium oxide (MgO). The space-time yield was calculated to be 11.3 molC3H6 kgcat-1 h-1 (Table 10, entry 4), which is significantly less than Cr catalysts for dehydrogenation and about equivalent to the performance of CrOx catalysts for ODH-CO2. When supported on carbon nanotubes, the presence of chromium(II) oxide (Cr2O3) increased the CO active sites on the carbon nanotubes, while also increasing propene desorption, suggesting that chromium promotes the functionality of the carbon active center. Combining platinum (Pt) clusters with tin (Sn) showed increased productivity due to electron transfer between the Pt and Sn in close proximity, leading to a higher rate of propane adsorption and propene desorption. 0.5Pt5Sn/Si-beta exhibited a space-time yield of 40 molC3H6 kgcat-1 h-1 (Table 10, entry 12). PtSn catalysts were characterized via C3H8-TPD and C3H6-TPD. Compared to 0.5Pt/Si-beta and 5Sn/Si-beta, 0.5Pt5Sn/Si-beta showed a stronger adsorption of propane, allowing for increased activity and propene desorption, leading to the understanding that propene would not be further oxidized to COx products due to a higher rate of desorption. It was also found that PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts showed an increased conversion when oxygen was introduced into the gas feed (compared to dehydrogenation conditions). This was due to the oxygen reacting with hydrogen to form water, driving the equilibrium towards propene formation. The activity and selectivity were much higher for PtSn/SAPO-34, yielding 72.4% compared to a 10-15% yield for most vanadium (V)-based catalysts. Introducing oxygen into the feed also reduced the formation of coke, which is a feature of instability in dehydrogenation. Water formed via oxidative dehydrogenation with carbon dioxide (ODH-O2) was found to reduce stability, by increasing sintering of platinum due to a weaker metal-support interaction. PtSn catalysts are widely studied for dehydrogenation and are found in industrial catalysts, as described above. In summary, a variety of catalysts have been shown to be active and selective for ODH-O2. While vanadia- and boron-based catalysts comprise a large proportion of the reports to date, nickel-based catalysts have shown promise, particularly NiO-CeO2. Molybdenum-based catalysts also prominently feature but are currently limited in comparison to analogous metal oxide catalysts, with low propene selectivity at moderate propane conversion. Graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4), although less active than nickel oxide per unit weight, exhibits high selectivity to olefins at moderate propane conversion and may warrant further investigation to maximize performance. High surface area, porous C3N4 may be a strong candidate to produce an active and selective catalyst. ODH-O2 offers many inherent advantages as the reaction is exothermic, thermodynamically unlimited, and avoids formation of coke. Extensive research into vanadium oxide (VOx)-based catalysts has been undertaken, with the clear limitation being overoxidation to COx products. Recent developments with one-step preparations and grafting techniques have improved catalyst performance to be comparable with the most active dehydrogenation and oxidative dehydrogenation with oxygen (ODH-O2) Pt- and CrOx catalysts. Deep oxidation remains a challenge for VOx and other supported metal oxides. However, it is clear that boron-based catalysts, although recently developed and less understood in both structure and mechanism, have clear potential for commercialization due to the high selectivity at high propane conversion. Additionally, ethene is formed as a secondary product. Many boron-based catalysts have similar, if not higher, space-time yields compared to dehydrogenation catalysts. Furthering the understanding of the reaction mechanism is essential to developing more efficient catalysts, and this appears to be the focus of recent research in the literature.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
超快速沸石结晶策略由余等人提出，以解决直接合成过程中的时间尺度不匹配问题，通过快速形成沸石结构，从而缩短金属封装所需的时间。这种方法加速了金属在沸石骨架内的集成，优化了金属簇的分散并最大化活性位点的数量。因此，α-NiMoO4相中PtSn簇的形成、结构和催化性能得到了改善。介孔结构的催化剂增加了表面面积和活性位点的数量，从而提高了丙烷的转化率。然而，由于合成过程中表面MoO3的损失，介孔催化剂的特定产率较低。这证实了MoO3与NiMoO4相比，在ODH-O2反应中表现出有利的活性。镍氧化物（NiO）被发现对ODH-O2选择性不利，倾向于过氧化产物。氮（Nb）被识别为NiO基催化剂的优越掺杂剂，减少了表面亲电氧物种的浓度并增加了表面酸性。然而，在约10%的转化率下，丙烯并未成为主要产物，这表明NiO基催化剂在ODH-O2应用中的局限性。相比之下，α-NiMoO4在约10%转化率时显示出75%的选择性，与Nb-NiO具有相似的转化率，丙烯是主要产品。向NiO纳米粒子（NiO-SPP）表面添加聚meric磷酸导致选择性提高23倍，因为聚meric磷酸与丙烯之间的弱相互作用导致更高的脱附速率，从而提高选择性。当氢氯（HCl）添加到氧气（O2）的气体流中时，铈（CeO2）被发现是一个选择性催化剂。假设氧气填充了表面的氧空位，形成了O22物种，进而介导了氯（Cl）到Cl自由基的氧化，导致高转化率和丙烯选择性。镍（Ni）被证实当掺入到铈的晶格中时，可以增加氧空位，从而增加活性位点。X射线光电子能谱（XPS）研究表明，氧空位的浓度在250分钟内翻了一番，导致选择性降至25.2%。氧空位是激活氧所必需的，但在没有HCl的情况下，它们会降低选择性，这就是为什么铈在没有HCl的情况下选择性较低；活性物种从氧空位变为Cl自由基样物种，已经显示可以在不产生大量不利影响的情况下提高选择性。铈基催化剂观察到的空间时间产率显著低于最活跃的ODH-O2催化剂。钴（Co）基催化剂已被研究用于ODH-O2，但其性能有限且远逊于钒（V）或硼（B）基催化剂。然而，王等人开发了一种Co3O4/ZIF-8催化剂，可以在250°C下运行，这比许多ODH-O2催化剂的运行温度低约200°C。这种低温活性值得进一步研究，但报告的空间时间产率为7.2 molC3H6 kgcat-1 h-1（表10，第1项）对于ODH-O2催化剂来说相对较低。塔诺伊等人研究了由层状双羟基前体衍生的多种金属氧化物，其中钴（Co）、镁（Mg）和铝（Al）的最高丙烯产量但选择性受限，由于裂解的增加导致过氧化。没有发现可衡量的还原性与催化剂性能之间的相关性，表明红ox性质不是这些ODH-O2催化剂的速率决定因素。不幸的是，酸性和碱性位点的平衡未被测量，因此在这种情况下可能存在的相关性没有得到确认。尽管铬氧化物（CrOx）-基催化剂已在脱氢和氧化脱氢与二氧化碳（ODH-CO2）方面进行了广泛研究，但对于ODH-O2而言，CrOx催化剂的研究相对较少。一些CrOx类型催化剂已显示形成丙烯，当支持在纳米结晶镁氧化物（MgO）上时，选择性相是Cr5O12。空间时间产率计算为11.3 molC3H6 kgcat-1 h-1（表10，第4项），这远远低于Cr催化剂的脱氢和约相当于CrOx催化剂的ODH-CO2产率。当支持在碳纳米管上时，铬（II）氧化物（Cr2O3）增加了碳纳米管上的CO活性位点，同时增加了丙烯脱附，表明铬促进了碳活性中心的功能。将铂（Pt）簇与锡（Sn）结合显示出增产，因为Pt和Sn之间的电子转移发生在接近的位置，导致丙烷吸附速率加快和丙烯脱附速率更高。0.5Pt5Sn/Si-beta的空间时间产率为40 molC3H6 kgcat-1 h-1（表10，第12项）。PtSn催化剂通过C3H8-TPD和C3H6-TPD进行了表征。与0.5Pt/Si-beta和5Sn/Si-beta相比，0.5Pt5Sn/Si-beta显示更强的丙烷吸附，允许更高的活性和丙烯脱附，导致理解丙烯不会进一步氧化为COx产物，由于脱附速率较高。还发现PtSn/SAPO-34催化剂在氧气引入气体流时显示出增加的转化率（与脱氢条件相比）。这是由于氧气与氢反应形成水，推动平衡向丙烯形成。活动性和选择性更高，产率为72.4%，与大多数基于钒（V）的催化剂的10-15%产率相比。引入氧气也减少了焦炭的形成，这是脱氢不稳定性的一个特征。由氧化脱氢与二氧化碳（ODH-O2）产生的水降低了稳定性，通过增加铂的烧结来减弱金属-支撑相互作用。PtSn催化剂当然广泛研究用于脱氢，并在工业催化剂中发现，如上所述。总之，各种催化剂已证明对ODH-O2具有活性和选择性。虽然二氧化钒（VOx）-和硼（B）-基催化剂占当前报告的主要比例，镍基催化剂显示出前景，特别是NiO-CeO2。钼基催化剂也显眼存在，但与相应的金属氧化物催化剂相比，目前受到限制，丙烯选择性在适度丙烷转化率时较低。图式碳氮化物（g-C3N4），尽管按单位重量比活性较低，但在适度丙烷转化率时显示出高烯烃选择性，并可能需要进一步调查以最大化性能。高表面面积、多孔C3N4可能是产生活性和选择性催化剂的强大候选者。ODH-O2具有许多内在优势，反应是放热的、热力学无限制的，并且避免了焦炭的形成。对二氧化钒（VOx）-基催化剂的广泛研究表明，过氧化是明显的限制。最近的一次一步准备和接枝技术的发展使催化剂性能与最活跃的脱氢和氧化脱氢与氧气（ODH-O2）Pt-和CrOx催化剂相当。深层氧化仍然是VOx和其他支持金属氧化物的挑战。然而，很明显，硼基催化剂，尽管最近开发并且在结构和机制方面理解较少，但由于高丙烷转化率时的高选择性，具有商业化的明确潜力。此外，乙烯作为副产品形成。许多硼基催化剂具有类似甚至高于脱氢催化剂的较高空间时间产率。进一步理解反应机制是开发更高效催化剂的关键，这似乎成为近期文献的重点。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
