1993 
SHORTER NOTICES 
257
German intervention in the Spanish Civil War is so well known that it is
surprising to find that it has only just become the subject of an independent
monograph in the English language. Robert H. Whealey's Hitler and Spain: The
Nazi Role in the Spanish Civil War, 19J6-19J9 (Lexington: U. P. of Kentucky,
1989; pp. ix + 269. $24) has now rectified that omission, providing the student
with a wealth of information concerning the origins and development of German
military and economic aid to Nationalist Spain. Added to this material is consider-
able coverage of Italian involvement in the conflict, the author having come
to the sensible conclusion that Germany's role must be seen in the context of
the Rome-Berlin Axis. Whealey first outlines the origins of Hitler's involvement,
beginning with the interest which certain parts of the German military machine
had shown in Spain before 1936. However, despite the existence of this interest,
which centred on the naval aid which Spain might afford Germany in the event
of a war with France, the author believes that Hitler responded to the Nationalists'
pleas for help for reasons that were political rather than military: the Civil War
was to be exploited as an anti-Communist crusade that would deepen divisions
between Britain and France, wreck the Franco-Russian alliance, and further Ger-
many's links with Italy and Japan. The presence of military and economic motives
for intervention is not denied, but, as Whealey shows in the concise summary
of its development which constitutes the remainder of the work, their potential
was only realized after the initial decision to aid Franco had been taken. So
far, so good. In general the work is thoroughly researched and full of new infor-
mation. Yet the picture is not wholly positive. Its footnotes (57 pages compared
with 142 of actual text) are so copious that they have left insufficient space for
argument, the result being that the author's thinking is sometimes difficult to
follow. Several points might also have been taken further: mention is made,
for example, of the fabled tank and artillery units of the Condor Legion, but,
whilst lamenting their obscurity, Whealey has failed to verify their existence,
which is a matter of some doubt. Factual errors also appear: it is surprising
to learn that 'in July-August 1938 the Nationalists opened the offensive on the
Ebro to wipe out the leftists of Catalonia'. Yet concentration upon such points
would be churlish. This valuable addition to the historiography of the Civil
War successfully meets its main objectives.
University of Liverpool 
CHARLES ESDAILE
In November 1938 America, Britain and Canada signed interlocking agreements
to promote mutual trade. At the time some commentators saw this as a significant
warning to 'the dictators'; subsequently, the agreements have sometimes been
depicted as a step towards the GATT process of trade liberalization. Negotiating
Freer Trade: The United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, and the Trade Agree-
ments of ipj8 (Waterloo, Ont.: Wilfrid Laurier U.P., 1989; pp. x + 197. Can
$29.95), by two distinguished Canadian historians, Ian M. Drummond and Nor-
man Hillmer, deals briskly with such assertions. This clear and meticulous study
is the first to use archives in all three countries (plus Australia). The central
chapters examine the slow progress of negotiations, as the Americans wore down
British resistance. These are of value to the specialist, but, for those interested
more generally in the economic and diplomatic history of the period, the first
and last chapters will be of greater use. Blending historical research with current
EHRJan. 93
 at McMaster University Library on June 30, 2015
http://ehr.oxfordjournals.org/
Downloaded from 
