<quotes>
[1] "The role of isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitates the activation of C-H bonds through mechanisms such as the Mars-van Krevelen and H-abstraction pathways."
[2] "For example, in the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, isolated metal centers on vanadium phosphate catalysts are crucial for the multi-electron transformation of n-butane."
[3] "In the case of n-butane oxidation over VPO catalysts, the distribution of products is affected by the availability of O-insertion sites, which are determined by the hydrocarbon-to-oxygen ratio in the feed."
[4] "Under conditions where the catalyst surface is not saturated, a decrease in the oxidizing power of the gas phase leads to a more favorable surface situation, in terms of specific centers for the transformation to the final stable products."
[5] "When the surface is saturated with adsorbed species, the formation of the final stable products is hindered due to the scarcity of O-insertion sites."
[6] "An increase in oxygen partial pressure can favor the selectivity to the anhydrides, even though the selectivity with the olen never reaches the same values as with n-butane."
[7] "The key point of the monolith-type reactor is the large temperature difference between the catalyst surface (where temperatures are as high as 1000°C) and the gas phase, allowing the reaction pathway to be directed towards the formation of olens."
[8] "Noble metal (Pt, Pd, Rh) coated ceramic foam monoliths used in these reactors are usually considered as being nonselective for the oxidation of alkanes, but control of the oxygen-to-hydrocarbon ratio and the high surface temperature reached on the very active metal surface allows the reaction pathway to be directed towards the formation of olens."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Isolated metal centers on oxide materials activate C-H bonds through the Mars-van Krevelen and H-abstraction pathways. In the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride, isolated metal centers on vanadium phosphate catalysts are crucial for the multi-electron transformation of n-butane. The distribution of products in n-butane oxidation over VPO catalysts is influenced by the availability of O-insertion sites, which is determined by the hydrocarbon-to-oxygen ratio in the feed. When the catalyst surface is not saturated, a decrease in the oxidizing power of the gas phase enhances the formation of stable products. However, when the surface is saturated with adsorbed species, the scarcity of O-insertion sites hinders the formation of final stable products. An increase in oxygen partial pressure can favor the selectivity to anhydrides. Noble metal-coated ceramic foam monoliths in monolith-type reactors are considered nonselective for alkane oxidation, but control of the oxygen-to-hydrocarbon ratio and the high surface temperature on the active metal surface directs the reaction pathway towards the formation of olens.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 孤立的金属中心在氧化物材料上通过Mars-van Krevelen和H-抽象途径激活C-H键。在丁烷转化为马来酸酐的过程中，范德华磷酸催化剂上的孤立金属中心对于n-丁烷的多电子转化至关重要。n-丁烷在VPO催化剂上的氧化过程中，产品的分布受到表面插入位点可用性的影响，这由进料中的碳氢化合物与氧的比例决定。当催化剂表面未饱和时，气体相的氧化能力降低有利于表面情况，从而促进形成最终稳定的产物。然而，当表面被吸附物种饱和时，由于表面插入位点稀缺，最终稳定产物的形成受阻。氧气分压的增加可以促进选择性到酸酐。在多孔体反应器中使用的铂、钯、铑等贵金属涂层陶瓷泡沫多孔体被认为是烷烃氧化的非选择性催化剂，但控制氧气与碳氢化合物的比例和活性金属表面达到的高温允许反应路径导向形成醇类。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
