<quotes>

[1] "The aim of this review is to report on current information available in the scientific Four reactions are examined:and patent literature about the selective oxidation of C, paraffins."
[2] "Oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride on (VO),P, 0,, Oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane to butenes on several different metal oxides, Oxidation of isobutane to methacrylic acid with heteropolycompounds, and Oxidation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol with different classes of catalysts."
[3] "Two of the reactions examined are multistep oxidation reactions (the n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride and the isobutane oxidation to methacrylic acid), while the other two reactions are essentially one-step oxidation reactions."
[4] "In selective oxidation of paraffins, the following three main questions are addressed: How is it possible to stop the oxidation at some intermediate products (avoiding its total oxidation) without operating at very low contact time, when the intermediates are more reactive than the paraffin?"
[5] "What is the mechanism of activation of the paraffin, abstraction of w,of H-,of H, or H+' donation?Is the selectivity also related to the mechanism of activation?"
[6] "The oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride is the only industrial process of paraffin selective oxidation that has been well studied."
[7] "Sufficient data have been thus far obtained so that an attempt can be made in the present review to answer these questions."
[8] "For the gas-phase oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane. the catalytic performance of different metal oxide-based catalysts has been compared, and the best operative conditions to achieve the highest yield to olefins have been analyzed."
[9] "For the liquid-phase hydroxylation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol, the performance of different classes of catalysts, the nature of the active sites, and their analogy to enzymes at a molecular level have been studied."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations in selective oxidation processes. The selective oxidation of C4 paraffins involves four reactions: oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride, oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane to butenes, oxidation of isobutane to methacrylic acid, and oxidation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol. Two of these reactions are multistep, while the others are one-step oxidation reactions. The main questions addressed in selective oxidation include how to stop the reaction at intermediate products without operating at very low contact time and the mechanism of activation of the paraffin. The oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride is the only industrial process that has been well studied, and sufficient data have been obtained to address the questions of selectivity and activation mechanism. The catalytic performance of different metal oxide-based catalysts for oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane and the performance of catalysts for the hydroxylation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol have been analyzed.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，影响烷烃转化的机制和效率，特别是在选择性氧化过程中，如氧化脱氢和沸石催化反应。C4石蜡的选择性氧化涉及四种反应：n-丁烷氧化为马来酸酐，n-丁烷氧化脱氢为丁烯，异丁烷氧化为甲基丙烯酸，异丁烷氧化为叔丁醇。其中两种反应是多步氧化反应，而其他两种反应基本上是一步氧化反应。在选择性氧化中，主要问题包括如何在不操作于非常低的接触时间的情况下在中间产品处停止氧化，以及石蜡的激活机制，包括氢原子的抽象、氢负离子的抽象、氢正离子的抽象或氢正离子的捐赠。选择性氧化n-丁烷为马来酸酐是唯一被充分研究的工业过程，已经获得了足够的数据来尝试回答这些问题。对于n-丁烷的气相氧化脱氢，已经比较了不同金属氧化物基催化剂的催化性能，并分析了实现最高烯烃产率的最佳操作条件。对于异丁烷的液相羟基化为叔丁醇，已经研究了不同类催化剂的性能、活性位点的性质以及它们在分子水平上与酶的相似性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
