<quotes>

[1] "The aim of this review is to report on current information available in the scientific Four reactions are examined:and patent literature about the selective oxidation of C, paraffins."
[2] "Oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride on (VO),P, 0,, Oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane to butenes on several different metal oxides, Oxidation of isobutane to methacrylic acid with heteropolycompounds, and Oxidation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol with different classes of catalysts."
[3] "Two of the reactions examined are multistep oxidation reactions (the n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride and the isobutane oxidation to methacrylic acid), while the other two reactions are essentially one-step oxidation reactions."
[4] "In selective oxidation of paraffins, the following three main questions are addressed: How is it possible to stop the oxidation at some intermediate products (avoiding its total oxidation) without operating at very low contact time, when the intermediates are more reactive than the paraffin?"
[5] "What is the mechanism of activation of the paraffin, abstraction of w,of H-,of H, or H+' donation?Is the selectivity also related to the mechanism of activation?"
[6] "The oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride is the only industrial process of paraffin selective oxidation that has been well studied."
[7] "Sufficient data have been thus far obtained so that an attempt can be made in the present review to answer these questions."
[8] "For the gas-phase oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane. the catalytic performance of different metal oxide-based catalysts has been compared, and the best operative conditions to achieve the highest yield to olefins have been analyzed."
[9] "For the liquid-phase hydroxylation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol, the performance of different classes of catalysts, the nature of the active sites, and their analogy to enzymes at a molecular level have been studied."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The selective oxidation of C4 paraffins involves four reactions: oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride, oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane to butenes, oxidation of isobutane to methacrylic acid, and oxidation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol. Two of these reactions are multistep oxidation reactions, while the other two are essentially one-step oxidation reactions. The main questions addressed in selective oxidation of paraffins include how to stop the oxidation at intermediate products without operating at very low contact time, the mechanism of activation of the paraffin, and whether selectivity is related to the activation mechanism. The oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride is the only industrial process of paraffin selective oxidation that has been well studied. For the gas-phase oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane, the catalytic performance of different metal oxide-based catalysts has been compared, and the best operative conditions to achieve the highest yield to olefins have been analyzed. For the liquid-phase hydroxylation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol, the performance of different classes of catalysts, the nature of the active sites, and their analogy to enzymes at a molecular level have been studied.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括支撑的钒氧化物和金属交换沸石，影响烷烃转化的机制和效率，特别是在氧化脱氢和沸石催化反应等过程中。C4石蜡的有选择性氧化涉及四个反应：n-丁烷氧化为马来酸酐，n-丁烷氧化脱氢为丁烯，异丁烷氧化为甲基丙烯酸，异丁烷氧化为叔丁醇。其中两个反应是多步氧化反应，而其他两个反应基本上是一步氧化反应。在石蜡的有选择性氧化中，主要问题包括如何在不进行非常低的接触时间的情况下在中间产品处停止氧化，石蜡的激活机制，以及选择性是否与激活机制有关。n-丁烷氧化为马来酸酐是唯一一个被充分研究的石蜡有选择性氧化的工业过程。对于n-丁烷的气相氧化脱氢，已经比较了不同金属氧化物基催化剂的催化性能，并分析了实现最高烯烃产率的最佳操作条件。对于异丁烷的液相羟基化为叔丁醇，已经研究了不同类催化剂的性能，活性位点的性质，以及它们在分子水平上与酶的相似性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
