I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


7 Selective Oxidations of C4 Paraffins BY FABRlZlO CAVANI AND FERRUCCIO TRIFIRO 1 Introduction The aim of this review is to report on current information available in the scientific Four reactions are examined:and patent literature about the selective oxidation of C, paraffins.
Oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride on (VO),P, 0,, Oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane to butenes on several different metal oxides, Oxidation of isobutane to methacrylic acid with heteropolycompounds, and Oxidation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol with different classes of catalysts.Two of the reactions examined are multistep oxidation reactions (the n-butane oxidation to maleic anhydride and the isobutane oxidation to methacrylic acid), while the other two reactions are essentially one-step oxidation reactions.
In selective oxidation of paraffins, the following three main questions are addressed: How is it possible to stop the oxidation at some intermediate products (avoiding its total oxidation) without operating at very low contact time, when the intermediates are more reactive than the paraffin?
What is the mechanism of activation of the paraffin, abstraction of w,of H-,of H, or H+' donation?Is the selectivity also related to the mechanism of activation?The oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride is the only industrial process of paraffin selective oxidation that has been well studied. Sufficient data have been thus far obtained so that an attempt can be made in the present review to answer these questions.For the gas-phase oxidative dehydrogenation of n-butane. the catalytic performance of different metal oxide-based catalysts has been compared, and the best operative conditions to achieve the highest yield to olefins have been analyzed.For the liquid-phase hydroxylation of isobutane to t-butyl alcohol, the performance of different classes of catalysts, the nature of the active sites, and their analogy to enzymes at a molecular level have been studied. 2 Oxidation of n-Butane to Maleic Anhydride
2.1 Introduction. -
The oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride is the only industrial Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 Selective Oxidations of C, Paraffins 247 process of selective oxidation of a paraffin.' The catalyst and the reaction have been thoroughly investigated in the scientific literature? Knowledge of the type of active sites and the features of the activation mechanism that allow high selectivity to be obtained can be useful in improving selectivity and activity in the oxidation of other paraffins.Since 1974 n-butane has been increasingly used in place of benzene as the raw material for maleic anhydride production for the following reasons3: Lower price, Nontoxicity.At present, more than 70 percent of the maleic anhydride is produced from n-butane. Several processes have been developed in recent years for n-butane oxidation which differ in regard to the following aspects':
T
y p e
of reactor (fixed, fluidized, or moving bed),
T
y p e
of recovery of maleic anhydride (anhydrous or aqueous), and System for the purification of maleic anhydride.
High availability in many regions, and The different processes that have been proposed together with their main features are summarized in Table 1.
Fixed-bed:mving-bed:- and fluidized-bed'.' reactors all use the same type of catalyst, (VO)2P207,and no other catalytic composition has been successfully proposed.A peculiarity of the catalyst is that no support has been used. The necessary mechanical strength has been developed by (1) special treatment of the catalyst and addition of a small amount of promoters,8 (2) embedding the precursor with Z r and Ti pyrophosphate' in fluid-bed technologies, or (3) encapsulating the precursor in a shell of silica in moving-bed technology.596 Therefore, the description of the selective oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride involves an analysis of the properties of (VO),P,O,.Table 1 Industrial technologies for the synthesis of maleic anhydride Process, licensor company Type of reactor Product recovery ALMA (Alusuisse, Lummus) Fluid bed Anhydrous Alusuisse Italia Fixed bed Anhydrous or aqueous Mitsubishi Chem.Fluid bed Aqueous Monsanto Fixed bed Anhydrous Scientific Design Fixed bed Aqueous DuPont Transport bed Aqueous Sohio-UCB Fluid bed Aqueous Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online 248 Catalysis The aim of this review is to confirm, modify, complete, or reject the main conclusions reported in a previous review? based on the results reported in the scientific literature of the last few years. 2 . 2 Chemistry of Preparation of the Catalysts. - The catalytic behavior of the V-P- based catalysts depends on the following main factors: Method of preparation of the precursor (type of reagents, reducing agents, and solvent; temperature, and dry or wet milling); P/V ratio; Presence of additives; and Methodology of activation and conditioning of the precursor at high tempera- ture.The many different factors involved in the chemistry of preparation of the active phase can account for the differences and the lack of reproducibility of the data reported in the literature for this catalytic system. 2 . 2 . 1 Preparation of the Precursor. - There is large consensus274*6,10-15 that the necessary conditions to obtain an optimal catalyst are the following: Synthesis of microcrystalline (V0)HPO4.O.5H20 prepared in organic solvent,characterized by a preferential exposure of the basal plane (001); Presence of defects in stacking of the platelets; and Slight excess of phosphorus with respect to the stoichiometric amount, an atomic P/V ratio in the range of 1.01 to 1.10 (the excess phosphorus with respect to the stoichiometric amount remains strongly bound with the acid vanadylphosphate; in fact, it is not removed by washing the precipitate).There are three methods of preparation of the precursor:
1. Reduction of V5' compounds (V205)
to V4+ in water, followed by the addition of phosphoric acid and obtainment of the solid by evaporation of the water16 or by crytallization.'
2. Reduction of V5' compounds in an organic solvent, addition of dry phosphoric
acid, and filtration of the
3. Preparation of VOPO, and reduction to (VO)HP04.0.5H20 in either an
aqueous or an organic solvent.'* Preparation 2 is considered the optimal one to obtain active and selective atalysts?**' In all preparations essentially only one phase has been observed,
VOHPO,,
with different levels of hydration (amorphous,with 4,2, or 0.5 mol of water). l7 The optimum precursor is the phase with 0.5 mol of water of crystallization?
Only when a considerable excess of phosphorus is used, (P/V>2), may another phase appear, VO(H2P04)2.'o When reduction of the vanadium compound is not complete, Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online Selective Oxidations of C4 Paraffins 249 V205 or VOPO, is also present,which even in small amounts affects the nature of the com- pound obtained by calcination." The main difference ob- served in several precursors is the morphology of the (VO)
HP04.0.5H20 crystallites. Fig-
ure 1 shows the X-ray dif- fraction (XRD) pattern of the (vo)04.0.H20 prepared in aqueous and organic medium.13 The spectra confm previous findings: precursors prepared in
I---
28 Figure 1 XRD spectra of VOHPOW0.5hO4prepared in organic (A) and aqueous medium (B). an aqueous medium are more crystalline and exposure of the basal plane (001) is less pronounced; no preferential line broadening of the reflection relative to the (001) plane is observed?4 In precursors prepared in an organic solvent (the most investigated preparation),the morphology depends on many factors such as: Nature of the solvent (aliphatic or aromatic P/V ratio;" Nature of the reducing agent (in some cases, the solvent itself);"*13 Property of the vanadium compound (morphology2' and granulometry of Time and temperature of redction;' Amount of water present;" Presence of additives (for instance, ethylorthosilicate);lo and Washing procedure with water or organic solvent, to remove the phosphorus in excess to the P/V ratio 1.1. v,0,29; The following steps for the formation of the precursor in organic solvents can be Formation of colloidal V205 at the water-alcohol interface (this has been proposed by some authors," but according to others13 it is not an important Solubilization of V5+ through the formation of V'+-alcoholate (V& does not form soluble alcohol ate);' Reduction of the V'+-alcoholate in the liquid phase to solid V,O,by the organic compound (the solvent itself or another more reactive alcohol, such as benzyl alcohol) or by an inorganic reducing agent (HCl, S02);'3*'8 and proposed:step); Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online 250 Catalysis Reaction of V204 with H3P04 to form (V0)HP0,.0.5H20 at the solid-liquid interface.A less likely alternative or parallel route to the last step is the solubilization of in an aqueous emulsion (water formed by vanadium reduction is not easily removed) and formation of (VO)HP04.0.5H20.The type of aliphatic alcohol influences the temperature of reduction of V 5
which is kinetically controlled and complete only when benzyl alcohol (which forms benzaldehyde and benzoic acid) is utilized, when a long reduction time is used, and when the phosphoric acid is added.13 In addition, it has been observed that the type of alcohol influences the morphology of (VO)HP04.0.5H20. With isobutanol, nonagglomerated platelets (rosette morphology) form with preferential exposure of the basal plane (Ool). With sec- or t-butyl alcohol and isopropyl alcohol well formed, nonagglomerated platelets are obtained.
With increasing the atomic P/V ratio, the morphology changes from nonuniformly sized clumps (at P/V=l.O) to uniformly sized rosettes (P/V=l.l), to well-defined crystal plates (P/V=I 2). lo In dry milling, the rosette crystallites can be broken and the effect is to decrease the exposure of the (001) crystal plane, while in wet milling shear forces allow the platelets to slide away, thus increasing the exposure.
In the preparation with benzyl alcohol as the reducing agent, many authors report the formation of platelets with stacking faults (deduced from the preferential broadening of the [Ool] reflection) attributed to the trapping of alcohol between the layers of the precursor and its release during actiation.
In summary, the effect of several parameters on the properties of (VO)HP04.0.5H20 is to vary the exposure of the (001) plane, create strain in the crystallite, and influence the extent of reduction of V5+.
In the preparation in an aqueous medium, the following steps for the formation of the precursor can be proposed: Reduction of V205 to a soluble V4+ species; After addition of H3P04 no precipitation occurs, due to the strong acid (while in a basic medium amorphous NH4V02HP04 forms22); Development of a (VO)HPO4.O.5H2O phase, together with another spurious amorphous phase, after complete evaporation of the solvent;516 and Alternatively, formation of the precursor by crystallization of pure (VO)HP04.0.5H20 through addition of water when the solution is highly concentrated (when it is very In both organic and aqueous media preparations, the precipitate has a higher P/V ratio than the stoichiometric value required for the preursor.* The maximum value corresponds to an atomic P/V ratio equal to 1.1 (excess P, if any is utilized, remains in the solvent) for both preparations. The localization of this excess phosphorus in the precursor Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online Selective Oxidations of
C4
Paraffins 25 1 has not yet been clarified. However on the basis of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy ( X P S )  analysis, which indicates a higher P/V ratio at the surface than in the bulk,16 it is possible to suggest that the excess phosphorus is essentially adsorbed on the surface of the vanadylphosphate.
Recently an aerosol preparation of a V-P catalyst has been carried out by Moser.23 The method involves spraying a solution of ammonium vanadates and phosphoric acid at temperatures between 300 and 700 "C. XRD analysis showed the presence of different phases than the one obtained with the preparation in organic solvent.
2.2.2 Activation Procedure. -
Controversial results are found in the literature for the transformation of the precursor to the active phase because many different phases can form depending on Morphology of the precursor; P/V ratio; Presence of additives; and Two main types of activation procedure have been reported in the scientific and Activation in an oxygen-free atmosphere at D400 'C, followed by intro- duction of the reactant mixture (n-butane in air). With this procedure pure crystalline (VO),P,O, is formed after the first  t e p , '  . '  ' which, after the introduction of the reactant mixture, can either remain essentially unmodified or be partially or totally reoxidized to a V5+ containing phase; and Single- or multistep calcination in air until a temperature lower than 400 "C is reached, followed by introduction of the reactant mixture.6"0"6 After calcination at 280 "C the precursor is still present while the trapped benzyl alcohol is being released, and this release disrupts the structure, causing an increase in surface area. At temperatures between 380 and 400 "C the precursor starts to decompose to an amorphous phase (containing both V4+ and V5+),63'6 which can be dehydrated and transformed to (V0)2P20,and/or other oxidized phases after the introduction of the reactant mixture.These different procedures to transform the precursor to the active phase can be understood on the basis of the following reaction scheme: Temperature, time, and atmosphere of activation; Presence of defects in the structure. patent literature:f l
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online 252 Catalysis Different types of VOPO,, some of which can be reversibly reduced to (VO),P207,have been the 6 and aIr,2027 the y-25 and the 6*-19
VOPO.
Key considerations to avoid the oxidation of (VO),P207 and of the intermediate amorphous phase to a V5+ phosphate, whose formation is known to be deleterious for activity and  e l e c t i v i t y ,     - are the following: The P/V ratio. P/V ratios in the precursor higher than the stoichiometric amount stabilize (VO)P207 not only in the reactants atmosphere but also for calcination in a i r at high temperature.
Minimization of impurities. The presence of free V2o5,l9 even in traces, or of additives such as Mn2+,22 facilitates the oxidation of the vanadylpyro- phosphate also in the reactant mixture.
Morphology. It has been proposed that the oxidation of (VO),P207 starts at the side faces of the (100) plane.2630.31 Catalysts with a higher exposure of the (100) plane, such as those prepared in an organic medium, are therefore less oxidizable.
Low-temperature of treatment in oxygen-containing atmosphere.
Precursors prepared in an organic medium, thus more defective, transform at lower temperature?-*l Additives. For example, the presence of Zn2+ as a promoter avoids the overoxidation of the catalyst at high temperatre.
It has been found20732733 that different phases present in calcined catalysts can cooperate improving the catalytic behavior. Very likely these findings are less important for the most active and selective catalysts, where only one phase has been detected, but they can be important in the formation, and in the catalytic properties, of the vanadylpyrophosphate during the activation procedure.
By means of electron microscopy,103 it has been observed that the dehydrated phase maintains the morphology of the precursor. In addition, XRD analysis has shown that the broadening of reflections corresponding to the basal planes of the precursor also occurs in the reflections corresponding to the basal planes of (VO)2P207,as shown in Figure 2.These findings, together with some analogies of the two structures (see Figure 3[A]) allowed Bordes et al.3, to propose that the transformation from (VO)o,.0.5H20 to (VO),P20, is topotactic.
Recently Thompson et al? suggested,on the basis of the different symmetries of the two structures (Figure 3[B]), that it is very difficult that this transformation may be a topotactic one. In addition, it is difficult to assume a topotactic reaction for the formation of an active phase when an intermediate amorphous phase has been identified which transforms very slowly to the pyrophosphate. such as the B- or 1 3
- :6
the Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online Selective Oxidations of C, Paraffins 253 Figure 2 XRD spectra of the (VO),P,O,prepared in organic medium, after fast actlvatlon (A), and after equilibration (B).16 In catalysts activated in air, the transformation from an amorphous phase to an almost completely crystal- line vanadylpyrophosphate inside the reactor (in the presence of the reactant's mixture) requires more than 100 hours?6 The global effect in catalytic behavior is an increase in the yield of maleic anhydride,owing to the fact that the catalyst can operate at higher temperature and conversion maintaining high selectivity (values of 56 percent molar yield have been reached, as shown in Figure 4).Also in catalysts activated in nitrogen, where the fresh catalyst is a pyrphosphate? modifications in activ- ity occur along the frrst 100 hours. The temperature of the reactor is progres- sively decreased; as a consequence, the conversion of n-butane is decreased, but nevertheless the yield to maleic anhydride increases due to the fact that the selectivity is increased. During this activation procedure the structure of the pyrophosphate remains stable, with only a slight oxidation of vanadium (the average oxidation state increases from 4,000 to 4.004) and a slight decrease in the bulk atomic P/V ratio.
2.2.3 Conditioning Procedure. -
After the stage of activation, changes occur during prolonged time-on-stream in an n-butane/air mixture, in both the catalytic behavior and the physicochemical properties of the catalyst.
A fresh catalyst has been designated2 as a "nonequilibrated" one, while a catalyst after prolonged time-on-stream has been designated as an "equilibrated" one. In the same review: warning has been given against extrapolation of the initial activity of the catalyst to its behavior in industrial-like conditions.
A nonequilibrated catalyst is more active and has lower selectivity to maleic anhydride, especially at high conversion, owing to the easier oxidation of !f+ to V5+ in the last part of the reactor (the reactant mixture becomes more oxidizing due to the considerable decrease in n-butane concentration, which is the limiting reactant)? A more precise definition of an equilibrated catalyst has been given recently by Ebner and Thompson?* According to the authors, an equilibrated catalyst is the one that has been kept in a flow of n-butane and air with a hydrocarbon concentration of 1.4 to 2 percent Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online 254
A
b r ?
B
8H
BH
h Catalysis (w2p2oT .r Figure 3 Structures of the (VO)HP0,.0JH20 and (VO),P,O,(A), and corresponding idealized polyhedral structures (B)?5 and GHSV at least 1,OOO h-', for approximately 200 to 1 ,
O
O
O
hours. The equilibrated catalyst has an average vanadium oxidation state in the range of 4.00 to 4.04, a bulk P/V ratio of 1 .
O
O
O
to 1.025,and an XPS surface atomic P/V ratio of 1.5 to 3.0. The catalyst has a BET surface area from 16 to 25 m2/g, and its XRD pattern only shows the lines of vanadylpyrophosphate. Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) and trans- mission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis shows rectangular platelets and rod-like structures.
According to Sola et a1.?6 the conditions required can be less severe; in particular,an equilibrated catalyst is the one that maintains a constant catalytic behavior for at least 50 hours.
One of the main properties of an equilibrated catalyst is the presence of stable V4+ (average oxidation degree 4 . 0 0 to 4.03).37-39 Equilibrated catalysts are no longer reoxidizable in air at 400 O C ,  contrary to a freshly prepared (VO),P,O, or with non- equilibrated catalysts.Cornaglia et al.,16 Lombard0 et a1.4' and Sola et al?6 have carefully investigated the procedure of conditioning in a flow of n-butane. Line broadening of some reflections (observed in fresh samples) no longer exists after the treatment, and the XRD pattern Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online Selective Oxidations o f
C4
Paraffins j 20 ............................................... 255 n-butane conversion 7 ,...f ................................... ..... .....
Figure 4 Catalytic behavior of the wO),P,O,vs. timeowstream; GHSV 2,500 h', 15% mbutane In alr, temperature 337
O
C
. =
V
5 ' .
However, they did not observe changes in the P/V ratio during the conditioning,but only a decrease of the P/V ratio in the bulk and a slight oxidation of vanadium, with an increase of the average oxidation degree from 4.000 to 4.004.
It is now possible to modify the previous explanation that has been given on the role of defects in nonequilibrated catalysts prepared in an organic medium. It has been proposed that defects increase the Lewis acidity of calcined catalysts, which is necessary for n-butane activation? Even though it is not yet possible to rule out that the defects are responsible for the higher activity of nonequilibrated catalysts,it Seems that their main role may be in directing or facilitating the transformation of the surface of a fresh catalyst (and perhaps a l s o
of the bulk) during the conditioning step to a situation more favorable for the optimal catalytic behavior.
In fact. two different polytypes of (VO),P207 exist (Figure 5), which may possess different and evolution to the most stable form (that one present in equili- brated catalyst) may occur more easily starting from a more defective precursor. becomes similar to that of the catalysts prepared in an aqueous medium. How- ever, equilibrated catalysts prepared in an organic medium still maintain higher activity and selectivity than those prepared in an aqueous medium.
Therefore, the defects in the (100) crystal plane do not seem to be directly related to the higher activity resulting from organic preparation, and other factors must be taken into consideration to explain the better catalytic perfor- mance. These authors also have not observed big changes in bulk composi- tion and in P/V surface ratio during the conditioning time.
According to Kubias et al.,37 during conditioning a transformation of the surf= occurs from a situation where termination with pyrophosphate groups predominates to one where orthophosphate groups predominate,with simultaneous oxidation of to
2.2.4 Rolc o
f the PN Ratio. - Optimal catalyst composition presents a slight excess of phosphorus with respect to the stoichiometric value of the precursor. 10*16*19*41 Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online 256 Catalysis Pdytype I Polyty-pe I1 Figure 5 Schematic representation of the vanadyl column symmetry for the two polytypes of the vanadylpyrophosphate.38 By means of XPS analysis,many inestigators,8** with the exception of Okuhara et al.$l have found a higher P/V ratio (in the range 1.5 to 3) on the surface than in the bulk. According to Okuhara et al.?l the differences in P/V ratio observed in the literature might be due to the use of incorrect reference compounds. By means of secondary ion mass spectroscopy (SIMS) analyis:a surface atomic ratio higher than 5 was found, with a bulk P/V ratio lower than 1.1.
There is a general agreement that a high P/V ratio helps in avoiding the oxidation of v4+ in (VO),P,O,?*J Reported in Figure 6 are the indexes of reducibility and reoxidizability of the catalyst as functions of the P/V ratio.44 The amount of V5+ observed in the catalyst after Figure 6 Effect of the P N  atomic ratio on the amount of V5+ and V3+ formed in air and in
2% H
, In He In (VO),P,O,?
Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online Selective Oxidations o f
C, Paraffins 257 calcination in air at 400 "C for half an hour has been taken as the index of (VO)2P207 oxidizability; the amount of V3+ found after reduction in hydrogen at 4 0 0
"C for half an hour has been taken as the index of (VO),P207 reducibility.
In catalysts with a slight defect of phosphorus (P/V=0.95), a considerable increase of the ease of oxidation (with respect to the catalyst with P/V=l.O) occurs, and the reducibility remains high. For P/V ratios higher than 1, both the reoxidizability and the reducibility of the catalyst decrease considerably. It has been found that high relative amounts of V5+ increase the activity and decrease the selectivity, while the low reducibility of V4+ is an index of low activity. Catalysts with a slight excess of phosphorus
(P/V=1.05)
exhibit the right compromise between reducibility and reoxidizability necessary to obtain both high activity and high selectivity. According to Matsuura and Yamazaki?6 the excess phosphorus avoids the oxidation of the catalysts by forming on the side faces of the (100) plane a (V0)(P03)2 phase, characterized by a lower oxidizability.
T  i f i r b has suggested that the surface enrichment of phosphorus (as found by means of X P S  and SIMS analyis'') helps in hindering the oxidation of (V0),P2O, both in the reactant's atmosphere and in air.
2.3 The Mechanism of the Reaction. -
A generally accepted reaction pattern is reported in Table 2.
None of these intermediates is observed among the reaction products under usual reaction conditions. This raises a doubt about the validity of the proposed mechanism;however, the absence of intermediate products can be justified simply by kinetic reasons.
The rate-determining step is the first one. Indeed, the initial rate of oxidation of 1-butene is from 2045 to 60 times2 higher than that of n-butane. This may result in the quick transformation of the intermediates to maleic anhydride before any desorption of the former may occur.
The reaction pattern described in Table 2 has been proposed on the basis of the following experimental facts: Table 2 Proposed steps in the oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride Reaction Type of reaction n-butane + butenes Oxidative dehydrogenation butenes + butadiene Allylic oxidation butadiene + 2,5-dihydrofuran 2,5-dihydrofuran + furan Allylic oxidation furan + lactone lactone + maleic anhydride 1-4 oxygen insertion Electrophylic oxygen insertion Electrophylic oxygen insertion Downloaded by UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA on 11 May 2012 Published on 31 October 2007 on http://pubs.rsc.org  doi:10.1039/9781847553232-00246 View Online 258 Catalysis Butenes, butadiene, and furan have been detected in the oxidation of n-butane with V-P catalysts under very unusual conditions, such as in a deficiency of oxygen at very high n-butane concentration and at very low contact time? or under high vacuum in temporal analysis of products (TAP) reactor,& or in the oxidation of n-butane under anaerobic conditions in a pulse react0r.4 In the oxidation of butenes, butadiene, and furan at the same conditions as those used for the oxidation of n-butane, maleic anhydride together with most intermediates reported in Table 2 (with the exception of 2,5dihydrofuran and of the lactone) have been observed.z7 Oxidation of 2,5-dihydrofuran to furan occurs at very low temperature
(200 "C)
with very high selectivity. This may be the reason why this com- pound has never been observed among the reaction products of butenes and butadiene oxidation?
The reaction pattern proposed in Table 2, which is a first approximation of the mechanism, shows the elementary steps necessary to obtain maleic anhydride and the types of active sites that are required. The polyfunctional nature of V-P catalysts has been confirmed by the oxidation of probe molecules where the individual steps of the reaction pattern of Table 2 have been singled out.4' The main products obtained in the oxidation of several probe molecules on V-P catalysts are reported in Table 3. The high selectivity and yield obtained in the oxidation of these molecules constitute evidence of the polyfunctional nature of V-P catalysts, and of the possibility that all the reported steps of Table 2 can indeed occur.The peculiarities of (VOhP20,in carrying out the reactions shown in Table 2 are the following:
1. A first key property is the ability to activate the paraffin (the first step of the
reaction pattern) with high selectivity;in fact, vanadium phosphates other than the vanadylpyrphosphate or molybdenum oxide-based are known Table 3 Polyfunctional nature of the V/P/O catalysts
T
y p e
of reaction Reactant Product


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions, and what factors contribute to their industrial significance?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 