<quotes>

[1] "In addition to metallic promoters, metal oxides have been employed as promoters, such as the oxides of alkali metals,68,69 and rare earth metal oxides.70 The oxide promoters could not only alter the coordination environment and electronic state of metallic components which can be mediated by the metaloxide interactions, but induce neutralization of acid sites.71 For example, Gong and coworkers described that the addition of titanium oxides helps in improving the catalytic performance of Pt catalysts by the strong metalsupport interaction between Pt and TiO2.72 However, excessive TiO2 addition could increase the amount of strong acid centers and lead to a significant amount of coke formation. The induced metaloxide interaction and undesired acid sites exert an opposite influence on dehydrogenation performance. Therefore, construable regulation of the interaction between Pt and oxide promoters is crucial for PDH reactions."
[2] "In addition to Al2O3-based supports, other oxide supports such SiO2, CeO2 and zeolites have been further developed. Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports.81 Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions. During the regeneration step, the CeO2 support can help facilitate atomic redispersion of Pt clusters without using corrosive halogens. Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation.82 Additionally, Pt can be embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels such as Pt@KA (LTA-type zeolite) and Pt@ZSM-5 (MFI-type zeolite) with some unique physical properties.43,83,84 The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability."
[3] "In addition to oxide supports, some non-oxide-based supports such as carbides and carbon materials are applied. Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention. Yue Wu and coworkers reported thermally stable Pt3Ti intermetallic compounds prepared via reactive metalsupport interactions (RMSI) between platinum and MXenes.55 Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media. Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed. Zhen Zhao and coworkers found that graphene doped with pyridine nitrogen is predicted to be the most effective support for enhancing Pt catalytic performance.85 Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property. It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance."
[4] "By altering the particle size and crystalline phase, the concentration of Zrcus cations can be significantly tuned.110,111 Additionally, doping and pretreating with a reductive atmosphere can be the effective methods for generating Zrcus cations. For example, doping of Y2O3 oxides is effective in generating and increasing the Zrcus sites with higher dehydrogenation activity.109 Additionally, the addition of noble metals such as Rh nanoclusters has a large impact on the reducibility of zirconia.112 Also, Rh nanoclusters help in promoting hydrogen desorption and decreasing the energy barrier in PDH reaction over bare ZrO2.113 Additionally, H2 pretreatment leads to an increase of Zrcus sites, which accordingly increases the PDH performance. Although ZrO2 with Zrcus showed superior dehydrogenation activity, over-reduction should be carefully avoided. For example, as for the Rh/ZrO2 catalyst, when the reduction degree of ZrO2 increases, propylene can adsorb onto Rh strongly, leading to the blockage of the hydrogen recombination site.113 The promoting effect of the metal is therefore hindered. In addition, the bulk ZrO2 showed significant limitations of deactivation for carbon deposit in the dehydrogenation step and sintering in redox cycles. Therefore, the development of ZrO2-based catalysts remains a great challenge."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. Metal-Ordered Mesoporous Silica (OMS) catalysts, particularly MCM-41 and SBA-15 supported VOx and CrOx, have been developed for Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. These supports have unique properties that can alter the coordination environment and electronic state of metallic components, which can be mediated by metal-oxide interactions. The addition of titanium oxides can improve the catalytic performance of Pt catalysts by enhancing the strong metal-support interaction between Pt and TiO2. However, excessive TiO2 addition could increase the amount of strong acid centers and lead to a significant amount of coke formation. The weak interaction between Pt and SiO2 allows the formation of Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports. CeO2 supports have strong interactions with metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions. During the regeneration step, the CeO2 support can help facilitate atomic redispersion of Pt clusters without using corrosive halogens. Pt can also be embedded in zeolites with special three-dimensional channels such as Pt@KA (LTA-type zeolite) and Pt@ZSM-5 (MFI-type zeolite) with unique physical properties. The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability. Factors such as lattice oxygen species and H2 pretreatment can influence catalyst performance and deactivation in PDH reactions. By altering the particle size and crystalline phase, the concentration of Zrcus cations can be significantly tuned. Doping and pretreating with a reductive atmosphere can be effective methods for generating Zrcus cations. Although ZrO2 with Zrcus showed superior dehydrogenation activity, over-reduction should be carefully avoided.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 金属有序介孔二氧化硅(OMS)催化剂，特别是MCM-41和SBA-15支持的VOx和CrOx，已被开发用于丙烷脱氢(PDH)反应。这些载体具有独特的性质，可以改变金属组分的配位环境和电子状态，这可以通过金属-氧化物相互作用来调节。添加二氧化钛可以提高Pt催化剂的催化性能，通过增强Pt和TiO2之间的强金属-载体相互作用。然而，过量的TiO2添加可能会增加强酸中心的数量，导致大量焦炭的形成。Pt和SiO2之间的弱相互作用允许通过直接H2预处理在SiO2载体上形成具有高合金度的Pt基双金属，如PtM金属间合金。CeO2载体与金属颗粒有强烈的相互作用，其中Pt原子可以以Pt离子的形式被捕获。在再生步骤中，CeO2载体可以帮助促进Pt簇的原子再分散，而无需使用腐蚀性卤素。Pt也可以嵌入具有特殊三维通道的沸石中，如Pt@KA(LTA型沸石)和Pt@ZSM-5(MFI型沸石)，具有独特的物理性质。可调的Si/Al比和相对较大的表面积可以阻止大烃分子的形成，从而防止所谓的焦炭沉积，提高催化稳定性。晶格氧物种和H2预处理等因素可以影响PDH反应中的催化剂性能和失活。通过改变颗粒尺寸和晶相，Zrcus阳离子的浓度可以显著调节。掺杂和用还原气氛预处理可以是生成Zrcus阳离子的有效方法。虽然具有Zrcus的ZrO2显示出优异的脱氢活性，但应谨慎避免过度还原。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
