I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Table 11 Summary of the catalytic data of representative Co-based catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation reaction No. Catalystsa Temp./C WHSV/h1 Components/% Conversion/% Selectivity/% Lifetime/h Formation rateb/mol C3H6 gCo1 h1 kdc/h1 Ref. 27 Co-AIM + NU-1000 500 0.126 C3H8 = 54.5, O2 = 45.5 6.5 60  0.002d 0.002 279 28 Co/H-ZSM5 500  C3H8 = 20, He = 80 25 60    280 29 NiCoMoϕy400 400 5.4 C3H8 = 66.67, O2 = 33.33 129.5 52.759.5 24 0.0052d 0.01 281 30 20Co5S/Al (20 wt% Co3O4) 600 0.43 C3H8 = 100 5035 70.271.4 6 0.023 0.15 282 31 Co/Al2O3 (5 wt% Co3O4) 560 0.43 C3H8 = 100 25.721.8 83.681.6 6 0.014 0.0043 283 32 Co/SiO2 550 6.38 C3H8 = 20, Ar = 80 7.34.1 88.1584.46 10 0.0093d 0.073 284 33 CoAl2O3-HT 590 2.9 C3H8 = 20, N2 = 64, H2 = 16 23 97 5 0.3 0.02 285 34 Mesoporous CoAl2O4 spinel (CoAl) (11.1 wt% Co) 600 0.54 C3H8 = 5, N2 = 95 3915 7584 5 0.034 0.26 286 35 CoAIMNi(ii)SIM + NU-1000 230 0.126 C3H8 = 54.5, O2 = 45.5 1 56 20   287 36 CoSIM-NDC-SALI 230 0.126 C3H8 = 54.5, O2 = 45.5 0.2 50  0.0002d  288 37 Re-oxide Co/Al2O3 (5.7 wt% Co) 600 0.91 C3H8 = 66.67, N2 = 33.33 44.722.5 93.092.1 6 0.15 0.17 289 38 Co1.3-Zr/SiO2 550 0.13 C3H8 = 3, Ar = 97 9.57.3 97 20 0.018 0.014 290 39 Co/Al2O3-NS (Al2O3 nano-sheet) 550 0.98 C3H8 = 9.09, He = 90.91 14.47.7 92.790.5 12 0.057 0.056 291 40 CoAl2O3-HT 590 2.9 C3H8 = 20, H2 = 16, N2 = 64 24.821.1 97.1 5 0.30 0.05 285 a The catalysts included here are only the best performing ones from the articles considered. b The formation rate is defined as mol C3H6 gCo1 h1. c kd, the deactivation rate constant is calculated from ln((1  Xfinal)/Xfinal) = kd·t + ln((1  Xinitial)/Xinitial). d The formation rate is defined as mol C3H6 gcat1 h1.
In the direct comparisons in Fig. 9, there are 4 regions (A, B, C and D), and we can find that although CrOx- and VOx-based catalysts, in region B, show higher propylene formation rates, they suffer higher deactivation rates. Comparatively, some metal oxides in regions C and D such as InOx-based catalysts show relatively lower activity. Importantly, GaOx-based catalysts, in region A, show preferable formation rates at lower deactivation rates, and might be promising alternative PDH catalysts. However, we should note that compared with noble Pt-based catalysts the propylene formation rates are limited due to their low reactivity; therefore, further improving the ability of CH activation remains the most important orientation for metal oxide-based catalysts.
2.2.3 Other formulations In addition to metals and metal oxides, the modern green chemical industry has made urgent and strict demands for environmentally and economically friendly catalysts, which has seriously restricted the large scale applications of conventional metal-based catalysts, especially precious metal and toxic metal oxides. Alternative carbon-based materials and carbides and nitrides have been investigated widely. 2.2.3.1 Carbon materials Carbon was first found to exhibit catalytic activity in alkane dehydrogenation reactions in the 1970s, and the rapid development of nanocarbon materials at the end of the last century provides ideal platforms for catalysis.114 The tunable surface functionalities and the relatively large π-conjugation systems provide nanocarbon materials stable catalytic activity in dehydrogenation of alkanes. Figueiredo's group found that oxygen functionalities on activated carbon and carbon nanofibers (CNFs) are possible active sites for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactions.115 Recently, non-precious metals confined in a nitrogen-containing carbon matrix (MNC) were developed.116 The N-coordinated Co(ii) sites were very stable up to 750 K under a H2 atmosphere and active for propane dehydrogenation. 2.2.3.1 Transition metal carbides and nitrides Transition metal carbides and nitrides are produced by incorporating C and N atoms into the interstitial sites of transition metals and the formation of carbides and nitrides can significantly modify the physical and chemical properties of the parent metals.117 From the point of view of catalysis, transition metal carbides (TMCs) often demonstrate unique catalytic properties as noble metal Pt catalysts. For PDH reaction, propylene selectivities >95% can be achieved in the absence of H2.118 However, due to their limited surface areas and unclear deactivation mechanisms, the development of these catalysts is desired.
3. Fundamentals of catalyst design
Although it is generally accepted that numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective. In the propane dehydrogenation system, it is of vital importance to understand the relationship between active-site motifs and unique catalytic behaviors, including dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms, which can shine a light on precise catalyst design. In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified.
3.1 Active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms over Pt-based catalysts
3.1.1 Active sites Based on the above catalyst development and performance comparisons, Pt-based catalysts show very high PDH reactivity. A previous study demonstrated that Pt-based catalysts are active for dehydrogenation in the metallic state, particularly due to their affinity for paraffinic CH bonds. Propane dehydrogenation is a structure-insensitive reaction, for which the kinetics is independent of the particle size of Pt clusters. Assuming that every surface atom is an active site, its reaction rate is directly proportional to the dispersion.119 Although small particles are inclined to increasing the mount of active sites on the surface, the relative fraction of exposed atoms with different local environments is also diverse. Since side reactions like deep dehydrogenation of propylene and propane hydrogenolysis are structure-sensitive reactions, undesired products are inevitably formed, which result in catalyst deactivation. The fraction of certain active sites can be calculated from geometric models,120 which predict that the fraction of under-coordinated atoms (local metal coordination numbers < 7) increases from 0.15 to 1 with metal particles shrinking from 10 to 1 nm. Lower dehydrogenation energy barrier on Pt nanoparticles which exposed (211) on surface, leads to a higher activity.39 In contrast, Pt nanoparticles which exposed (111) have a higher cracking energy barrier and lower binding energy in propylene, resulting in a more favorable selectivity (Fig. 10b). The Pt(111) surface consists of four different sites: atop, bridge, fcc hollow and hcp hollow (Fig. 10a).9 Surface structures for the adsorption of propylene on Pt(111) are of four types: (i) propylene di-σ V-shape; (ii) propylene di-σ; (iii) propylene π and (iv) propylidyne (Fig. 10c).121 The different adsorption configurations reflect the influence of Pt geometric sites.
Fig. 10 Active sites and adsorption configurations over Pt catalysts. (a) Top view of the first layer of a Pt(111) surface (Pt is gray) and the considered sites (colors) used in the simulation. Reproduced with permission from ref. 9. Copyright 2018 American Chemical Society. (b) The relationships between Pt NP size and TOF. Reproduced with permission from ref. 39. Copyright 2015 American Chemical Society. (c) Surface structures for the adsorption of propylene on Pt(111): (i) propylene di-σ V-shape; (ii) propylene di-σ; (iii) propylene π; and (iv) propylidyne. White, H; grey, C and light blue, Pt atoms. Reproduced with permission from ref. 121. Copyright 2006 Elsevier.
Experimentally, adsorption of propane and propene was investigated on Pt(111) by reflectionabsorption infrared spectroscopy.122,123 In terms of a localised CH2CH2CM3 complex, this would have Cs symmetry with only the a modes allowed by the MSSR. These are, respectively, ν(CH3)as, ν(CH3)s, ν(CH2)s, δ(CH3)as, δ(CH3)s, δ(CH2) (scissors), CH2 wag, CH3 rock and two ν(CC) modes. Other mode components of ν(CH3)as, δ(CH3)as and CH3 rock, together with ν(CH2)as, CH2 twist and CH2 rock have a symmetry and are forbidden by the metal-surface selection rule (MSSR). For the room-temperature spectrum of propane and propene over Pt/SiO2, only additional weak absorptions occur at 2895, 1365 and 1355 cm1 together with a relative intensification of the band at 2920 cm1.122 All these additional features are strengthened in the spectrum from the adsorption of propene, and additional weak bands occur at 30202980, 2820 and 1465 cm1. The 30202980 cm1 absorptions clearly arise from the ν(CH) modes of the CC group in the π-complex, but their weakness suggests that relatively few of these species are present. Additionally no band assignable to the ν(CC) mode of the π-complex has been observed in this case. It therefore seems probable that the di-σ species is the most abundant additional species after propylidyne.
Another issue is about the valence states of Pt (Pt0 or Ptx+), which have a great impact on the reactivity of propane conversion. A typical example can be found in the work of Xiong et al.,124 who reported that the conversion of propane is up to 100% with Pt atoms singly dispersed on CeO2,74 where Pt atoms have been acknowledged to be bonded onto CeO2via the combination of [Pt2+O4] single atoms.125 However, it enhances the interaction between all intermediates of CxHy and Pt because the CxHy group is electron-rich, and thus electrophilic sites on the catalyst will attract the adsorption of the CxHy group. Therefore, Ptx+ ions are not selective for propylene production but merely convert propane with excellence. Recently, Gong and coworkers126 showed that single-atom and electron-rich Pt on Cu metals showed more facile propylene desorption and a higher propylene deep dehydrogenation barrier than Pt metals, leading to higher propylene selectivity but at the expense of dehydrogenation activity with a higher first dehydrogenation barrier. This could imply that electron-rich Pt atoms are selective but less reactive for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, which is in accordance with the above discussion.
Therefore, every Pt surface atom is active for propane dehydrogenation, but the geometrically coordinated structure and electronic states can significantly influence the propylene adsorption and the potential side reactions.
3.1.2 Dehydrogenation pathways Based on the identification of specific active site structures, a variety of experimental and theoretical studies have been performed to understand the dehydrogenation pathways on Pt catalysts. In propane dehydrogenation, the reactions generally occur in four steps: reactant adsorption, surface reaction (first and second hydrogen abstraction), propylene desorption, and site regeneration.9 Xing-Gui Zhou and coworkers33,127,128 investigated the successive dehydrogenation and cracking of propane on Pt(111), Pt(100) and Pt(211) surfaces, consisting of 17 elementary dehydrogenation steps and 11 CC bond cracking steps (Fig. 11a and b). Compared with Pt(100) and Pt(211), Pt(111) is more selective toward propylene for its higher cracking energy barrier and weakens the binding strength of propylene, suggested by DFT calculations and experiments. It's worth noting that the activation energy is not constant with the progression of the continuous deep dehydrogenation. The activation energy differences between the elementary steps of cracking and dehydrogenation are considerably reduced. And the intermediate derived from deep dehydrogenation, propyne, is supposed to be the point of origin of CC bond breaking, as the CC bond cleavage is easier than CH bond breaking, contributing to the formation of side products like ethane, methane and coke. Su and coworkers9 also gave a complete description of the reaction pathway of dehydrogenation to propylene, deep dehydrogenation, and CC bond cracking on a Pt(111) surface, showing that the rate-limiting step is the dissociative adsorption of propane. Pathway R2  R5 plays a dominant role in transforming C3H8 to C3H6 compared with R1  R4, while R6  R11 and R10 contribute to the cracking of C3 species (Fig. 11c). Different from the common slab models, Luo and coworkers129 systematically investigated propane dehydrogenation over a single-Pd-doped Cu55 nanoparticle. The first CH bond activation is still the rate-determining step for the whole reaction, as the slab model showed, and the barriers for the initial CH cracking to yield 1-propyl and 2-propyl species are similar, which are 102.0 and 103.3 mol1, respectively (Fig. 11d, e and h).
Fig. 11 Dehydrogenation pathway on Pt catalysts. (a) Elementary steps involved in propane dehydrogenation. Carbon: grey, hydrogen: white, Pt: blue. (b) Energy profiles for propane dehydrogenation on Pt(111) including both the dehydrogenation steps (the solid lines) and the CC cracking steps (the dotted lines). Reproduced with permission from ref. 33. Copyright 2011 Royal Society of Chemistry. (c) Network of surface reactions of PDH. All elementary reactions are reversible. Asterisks indicate surface adsorbed species. Reproduced with permission from ref. 9. Copyright 2018 American Chemical Society. (d and e) Relative energy profiles for the dehydrogenation of propane to propylene on the single-Pd-doped Cu55 cluster and the equilibrium structures of species involved in the catalytic conversion starting from configurations c and e. Reproduced with permission from ref. 129. Copyright 2014 American Chemical Society. (f) Relative energy profiles for the deep dehydrogenation of propylene on the single-Pd-doped Cu55 cluster. Reproduced with permission from ref. 130. Copyright 2013 American Chemical Society. (g) Adsorption modes of propylene on Pt surfaces: di-σ mode and π mode. Reproduced with permission from ref. 29. Copyright 2011 American Chemical Society. (h) The simplified elementary steps involved in PDH. Reproduced with permission from ref. 131. Copyright 2018 Royal Society of Chemistry.
Previous research studies by Chen et al. and Honkala et al. demonstrated that the competition between C3H6 desorption and C3H6 dehydrogenation can be used to evaluate the selectivity.29,130 Therein, they used a simplified network to study propylene dehydrogenation, and the energy barriers to yield 1-propenyl and 2-propenyl species are 112.1 and 138.0 kJ mol1, respectively, which are 53.5 and 79.5 kJ mol1 higher than that of the propylene desorption, making the desorption of propylene more favorable dynamically (Fig. 11f and h). Typically, the adsorption configuration of propylene has transferred from the di-σ to π mode on the Pt single atoms, compared to the co-existence of two modes on the Pt surfaces (Fig. 11g). Recently, Gong and coworkers131 further investigated the performance of Pt-based alloy catalysts using α-type (1) and β-type (2) PDH reactions (the diffusion of H is not included) (Fig. 11h). The surface propylene either desorbs to form gas phase propylene or further dehydrogenates and the dehydrogenation product of propylene (C3H5*) is taken as a model precursor for coke deposition. The authors utilized the free energy barrier of the first dehydrogenation step to represent the activity of the PDH catalyst as numerous studies have suggested that the first or second CH bond cleavage of alkanes is the rate-controlling step. Moreover, they applied a descriptor, namely, the difference between the C3H6 desorption free energy barrier and the further dehydrogenation free energy barrier from C3H6 to 1-C3H5, to roughly represent the selectivity. Nearly 30 different bimetallic compounds for the PDH reaction are tested and the linear relationship indicates that the selectivity will decrease with the increase of activity, as derived from the BrnstedEvansPolanyi (BEP) relationship.132
3.1.3 Deactivation mechanisms As discussed above, propane dehydrogenation undergoes a very complex dehydrogenation network. Particularly, at high temperatures, parasitic reactions (such as cracking and hydrogenolysis to lighter hydrocarbons, further dehydrogenation and formation of coke deposits) lead to rapid loss of activity and lower yields over Pt-based catalysts. Notably, the primary cause of catalyst deactivation is coke formation. Coke preferentially covers the surface uncoordinated active sites, which might be the possible reason why the activity tends to decrease more rapidly on smaller nanoparticles. In addition, the high reaction and regeneration temperatures can also lead to the sintering of Pt NPs, leaching and reconstruction deactivation of PtM alloys. The main forms of deactivation are shown in Fig. 12a.
Fig. 12 The deactivation and inhibition strategies over Pt-based and metal oxide-based catalysts. (a) The main deactivation phenomena are shown. (b) The approaches for inhibiting deactivation are shown and divided after the different modification stages of supports, metal particles and treatment.
A first-order deactivation model is usually used to evaluate the catalyst stability:73 kd = (ln[(1  Xfinal)/Xfinal]  ln[(1  Xinitial)/Xinitial])/t (6) where Xinitial represents the conversion measured in the initial period, Xfinal represents the conversion measured in the final period of an experiment, and t is the reaction time (h). kd represents the deactivation rate constant (h1); the higher the kd value is, the faster deactivation and lower stability are realized. Insights into the deactivation mechanisms can further help design more stable Pt-based catalysts. The aforementioned deactivation phenomena have a crucial influence on the catalytic performance. Therefore, for the design of catalytic systems with promoted performance, inhibition of deactivation can serve as an important requirement. A number of synthetic strategies for inhibiting the deactivation have been shown, which can be classified in accordance with the modification of supports, metals and treatments (Fig. 12b). In the following sections, we will introduce the deactivation mechanisms and the inhibition strategies.
3.1.3.1 Coke formation
3.1.3.1.1 Coking mechanism In PDH reactions, coking behavior over Pt-based catalysts leads to decreased catalytic activity follows via two mechanisms: poisoning the active sites or limiting access of the reactants to the active sites due to the partial or complete blockage of pores by coke.133,134 Both deactivation modes can occur simultaneously. As shown above, the coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits. It has been reported that compared to flat surfaces (6372 kJ mol1), the energy barrier to form propylene is much lower on step sites (2434 kJ mol1) by DFT calculations.134 Nevertheless, propylidyne intermediates, as precursors for coke formation and hydrogenolysis, can be easily generated, causing propane to adsorb strongly on the former. The dehydrogenation product of propylene, C3H5*, can be taken as a model precursor for coke deposition. In addition to the coke formation on Pt NPs, the coke types and positions on Pt-supported catalysts have been studied, which are classified into three locations: on Pt metal, on the Ptsupport boundary, and on supports. For Pt/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, coked during propane dehydrogenation, have been studied using temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO). TPO profiles on the PtSn catalyst imply that different peaks are consistent with coke on and near the metal, graphitic and disordered coke on the support, respectively. The amount of coke that can be attributed to the third peak increases with temperature and propane partial pressure.133
Both facilitating the propylene desorption and increasing the dehydrogenation barrier of propylene result in less coke. As the adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important. Additionally, tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation. Understanding the process of coke deposition on the catalysts is important in improving catalyst performance and optimizing catalyst regeneration. The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows.
3.1.3.1.2 Geometric separation Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity. For example, Gong and coworkers described an investigation of the promotional effect of Cu on the catalytic performance of Pt/Al2O3 catalysts for PDH.44 The interaction between Pt and Cu elevates the energy barrier for CC bond breaking, and facilitates C3H6 desorption as well. The optimized loading content of Cu is 0.5 wt%, which increases the C3H6 yield to 36.5% with a C3H6 selectivity of 90.8% and less coke (Fig. 13a and b). Specifically, owing to the site-isolated Pt, C3H5 as a model precursor of coke formation can only contact with its surface through a single bond instead of more stable three PtC interactions on a 3-fold hollow site over Pt(111), which can significantly inhibit the structure-sensitive deep dehydrogenation side reactions. For example, Pt/Cu single-atom alloys (SAAs) break the scaling relationship of Pt3M (M = 3d and 4d transition metals) alloys and eliminate the structure-sensitive deep dehydrogenation to improve the propylene selectivity up to 90%.45,135 In regard to the significance of isolated active sites (i.e., geometric effects), a similar inference has been implied for PdIn/SiO2 intermetallic alloys in ethane dehydrogenation (EDH).136
Fig. 13 Anti-coking strategies over Pt-based catalysts. Geometric separation: (a) proposed mechanism regarding the influence of Cu on the catalytic performance of Pt/Al2O3, and (b) TEM images taken over the spent Pt and PtCu alloy. Reproduced with permission from ref. 44. Copyright 2014 Royal Society of Chemistry. Electron richness: (c) projected density of states for d orbitals of Pt(111) and Pt1Zn1(110), and (d) turnover rate (TOR) as a function of time on stream over Pt and PtZn catalysts. Reproduced with permission from ref. 42. Copyright 2017 American Chemical Society. Poisoning the acid sites: (e) TEM image of PtZn(Mg)AlOx catalysts, and (f) propane conversion and selectivity of propylene formation for 0.3% Pt/Mg(Zn)AlOx samples versus the fraction of Zn. Reproduced with permission from ref. 137. Copyright 2016 Elsevier Inc. Cofeeding stream: (g) C3H6 and H2 coverage over Pt(111), and (h) site time yields (STY) of C3H6 (maximum shown with ), CH4, C2H6, and C2H4 as functions of the H2/C3H8 ratio. Reproduced with permission from ref. 138. Copyright 2017 American Chemical Society. Coke transfer: (i) proposed coke transfer mechanism over Pt/TiAl2O3 catalysts, and (j) O2-TPO profiles of the spent Pt/TiAl2O3 catalysts. Reproduced with permission from ref. 72. Copyright 2015 American Chemical Society.
3.1.3.1.3 Electron richness As mentioned above, the empty d orbital of Pt can be occupied by electrons transferred from electron-rich C3H6 which acts as an electron-donor. A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity. Since the reactivity of metal nanoparticle surfaces is determined by the electronic states through the valence d-bands, which is a region in the partial density of states (DOS) (Fig. 13c),42 alloying with diverse promoters have a great impact on the energies and availability of the valence electrons to form chemical bonds with adsorbates, which is a feasible way to modulate the surface electronic structure and hence the reactivity. Jeffrey Greeley and coworkers applied an integrated approach using DFT calculations, kinetics, and in situ X-ray spectroscopies. The modified energy of the Pt 5d electrons by the amalgamation of Zn into the catalyst surface is directly related to transformation of rate promotion, while the ensemble effects of PtZn ensembles contribute to enhanced C3H6 selectivity (Fig. 13d).42 In addition to the alloys, the addition of an appropriate amount of reducible metal oxides such as TiO2 improves catalytic stability and C3H6 selectivity, which is attributed to the electron transfer from partially reduced TiOx (x < 2) to Pt atoms.72 3.1.3.1.4 Poisoning acid sites In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules. Another approach has been the use of non-acidic supports that lead to fewer cracking and polymerization reactions compared with acidic supports. Alumina is a conventional support applied to platinum-based catalysts for dehydrogenation due to its high surface area, outstanding mechanical strength and thermal stability, which is beneficial to disperse platinum clusters on surfaces and thus enhance the stability of the catalyst. However, most alumina supports are acidic, which tends to accelerate coke formation; therefore alkaline promoters are used to poison acid sites and curb support acidity, such as Li, Na, and K. Zn and Mg with different ratios have also been used to dope the support (Fig. 13e), where the samples with a Zn/(Zn+Mg) of 0.05 showed the highest propylene selectivity (Fig. 13f),137 because the resulting spinel phase is less acidic and thermally more stable. Another way to modify an Al2O3 support is to introduce metal oxides (such as TiO2, and CeO2) into it. Due to the enhanced interaction between Pt and the supports, the activity, stability and anti-coking capability of Pt-based catalysts would be improved to a large extent. This kind of modification decreases the acidity of supports, and modulates the dispersion and the electronic properties of Pt. 3.1.3.1.5 Co-feeding streams In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination. Increasing hydrogen pressure leads to a lower coverage of deeply dehydrogenated coke precursors on the surface (Fig. 13g).138 More recent experiments show that an increasing TOF of propylene during propane dehydrogenation is observed with increasing H2/C3H8 inlet ratio (Fig. 13h). Several explanations are suggested: (i) H2 reduces the coverage of coke precursors, (ii) reaction energies and barriers depend on H2 coverage in a beneficial way, (iii) an alternative and energetically favorable reaction pathway exists at increased H2 coverage and (iv) subsurface hydrogen that may have emerged at high H2 coverage has an effect. In addition to H2, cofeeding CO2 is an attractive method, where CO2 acts as a soft oxidant, and can reduce the amount of coke formed at elevated temperature on the catalysts via the reverse Boudouard reaction, thereby increasing conversion and maintaining the stability of the catalysts.139 3.1.3.1.6 Enhancing oxygen mobility The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability. As one of the most significant rare earth oxides, ceria has been widely employed. When the cubic fluorite structure of CeO2 is modified with Ga3+ cations, both the surface oxygen mobility and lattice oxygen storage capacity are enhanced.140 DFT calculations show that the addition of Ga can greatly improve C3H6 desorption, and inhibit deep dehydrogenation and the subsequent coke formation. 3.1.3.1.7 Coke transfer In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life. The interaction between Pt and coke precursors is weakened by Pt atoms with high electron density, leading the coke precursors to migrate from the Pt sites to supports, hence resisting coke deposition and improving the stability of the catalyst to a large extent (Fig. 13i). Consequentially, the coke amount was significantly decreased as the O2-TPO profiles in Fig. 13j show.72 Experimentally, the addition of Sn does not only inhibit CC bond cleavage and improve selectivity towards styrene, but also allow the coke precursors to migrate from the active metals to supports with large surface area. A drain off effect is proposed to explain the decrease of the coke coverage on the metallic sites upon addition of Sn. But until now, the coke transfer pathway has not been directly demonstrated.
3.1.3.2 Catalyst sintering
3.1.3.2.1 Sintering mechanism As discussed above, Pt cluster size has a significant influence on the dehydrogenation pathway. However, the Pt nanoparticles usually suffer from sintering at high PDH reaction and regeneration temperatures, which could lead to their permanent deactivation. In principle, two aspects cause the sintering of metal particles. The Ostwald ripening mechanism has been implied for metal nanoparticle sintering, which occurs between the nanoparticles with cognizable diameters. Due to their higher surface energies, smaller particles nearby are sacrificed to enhance the interparticle transport of mobile species, causing the larger particles to grow.141 In addition, the migrationcoalescence process has also been implied to the metal sintering, which involves in the Brownian motion of metal nanoparticles on the catalyst surface, resulting in the formation of larger particles when the small particles are close to each other. In PDH reactions, the Ostwald ripening has been demonstrated to be the main sintering mechanism due to the low Tammann temperature of Pt (750 C). To date, many efforts have been directed towards inhibiting the sintering and/or helping re-disperse the aggregated nanoparticles during the dehydrogenation and regeneration processes. 3.1.3.2.2 SMSI on oxide/non-oxide supports Strong metalsupport interaction (SMSI) can be generated from chemical reactions at the metaloxide interface, diffusion, and charge redistribution with a metal contacting with a reducible oxide. Alumina-supported Pt is one of the major industrial catalysts for light alkane dehydrogenation. Compared to Al2O3, CeO2 is unique on account of its ability to trap Pt atoms in an ionic form due to the stronger SMSI (Fig. 14a). The CeO2-supported PtSn clusters are highly stable, even upon extending the reaction temperature to 680 C. Moreover, upon oxidation the PtSn clusters easily recover to the atomically dispersed species on CeO2 as shown in the TEM images in Fig. 14b, making PtSn/CeO2 a fully regenerable catalyst without deactivation of reaction performance (Fig. 14c).74 In addition to the oxide supports, SMSI is also developed on non-oxide carriers in PDH reactions. Yue Wu and coworkers reported thermally stable PtTi intermetallic NPs prepared via SMSI between platinum and MXenes. The results in this case showed that the catalysts become highly selective and stable for light alkane dehydrogenation.55
Fig. 14 Anti-sintering strategies over Pt-based catalysts. SMSI approach: (a) schematic showing the self-assembly and regeneration processes of PtSn nanoclusters in propane dehydrogenation. (b) STEM images of the regenerated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst (air, 580 C and 680 C), (c) propane dehydrogenation mediated by PtSn/CeO2 showing 3 cycles of a 6 h run, followed by oxidative treatment in flowing air at 580 C. Reproduced with permission from ref. 74. Copyright 2017 Wiley-VCH. Encapsulation: (d) graphene coated Pt NPs, structure scheme of Pt/ND@G, and scanning transmission electron microscopy images of (e) Pt/Al2O3 and (f) Pt/ND@G. Reproduced with permission from ref. 142. Copyright 2017 American Chemical Society. Embedding: (g and h) HR-HAADF-STEM images of the KPtSn@MFI-600H2-6 h sample, and (i) the dispersion of Pt in KPtSn@MFI samples after different pre-reduction treatments with H2 at 600 C. Reproduced with permission from ref. 66. Copyright 2020 Nature.
3.1.3.2.3 Encapsulation with oxides, carbon layers or mesoporous materials The confinement situation offered by a support can provide a high surface area for dispersing active metals, and exert a spatial constraint on metal clusters avoiding from sintering. The package of a Pt core with an oxide shell could effectively prevent the aggregation of Pt nanoparticles at high temperatures, and changing the core particle size and the thickness of the shell is helpful in realizing controllable catalytic performances. The coated Pt@SnO2/Al2O3 catalyst exhibited better stability during propane dehydrogenation compared with the conventional PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst, which is due to the peculiar coated structure and the coated configuration being maintained up to 700 C. In addition, nanocarbons, such as carbon nanotubes and nanodiamonds, are outstanding catalyst supports for dehydrogenation (Fig. 14d). Compared with Al2O3 supports (Fig. 14e), a defective graphene nanoshell leads to a strong protective effect in inhibiting the agglomeration of Pt NPs (Fig. 14f).142 In addition, mesoporous materials have been reported as promising supports for Pt-based catalysts for PDH owing to their confinement effect. Gong and coworkers used SBA-15 as a support and revealed that the average size of a SBA-15-supported PtFe@Pt catalyst is 6.9  0.5 nm,47 and that of SiO2-supported PtFe@Pt is 21.4  1.9 nm, indicating that the mesoporous structure of SBA-15 can confine the nanoparticles inside to prevent them from severe sintering during the reduction operation. 3.1.3.2.4 Fixation in zeolite crystals Compared to the encapsulation with mesoporous zeolites, a novel strategy for preparing stable metal nanoparticle catalysts is provided by fixing metal species in zeolite crystals (metal@zeolite), where the stiff zeolite framework is beneficial to stabilize the metal nanoparticles. Avelino Corma and coworkers found an innovative approach that can generate Pt nanoparticles and single Pt atoms with remarkably high thermal stability, formed within purely siliceous MCM-22 during the growth of a two-dimensional zeolite into three dimensions. High temperature oxidationreduction treatments lead to conversion of encapsulated Pt species to small nanoparticles in the estimated size range of 1 to 2 nm.143 A second metal element such as Sn can be incorporated together with Pt following the same synthesis procedure. A similar situation occurred again. After calcination in air, Pt species in the K-free PtSn@MFI sample agglomerate into nanoparticles, while the Pt species in the KPtSn@MFI sample remain atomically dispersed (Fig. 14g and h).66,83 As displayed in Fig. 14i, the apparent Pt dispersion decreases with reduction time, especially from 0 to 6 h. The decrease in exposed surface Pt should be caused by the formation of PtSn interactions in a scenario in which partially reduced Sn species interact with the external surfaces of the Pt clusters. Consequently, the high catalytic performance of KPtSn@MFI can be maintained for at least three reactionregeneration cycles without obvious deactivation. 3.1.3.3 Other deactivation Regenerating catalysts under oxidizing (or oxychlorination) conditions followed by H2 reduction is supposed to be an effective method to remove the coke and reactivate the catalysts. Nevertheless, such continuous generation may not entirely restore catalytic performance, structural transformation and then the eventual loss of activity and selectivity in consecutive cycles.144 Significantly, for spent Al2O3-supported PtSn catalysts, a portion of the Sn, which remains atomically dispersed, is favorable for redispersion of the Pt to form small nanoparticles on the Al2O3 surface.63 However, without Sn, Pt may sinter into larger nanoparticles during oxidative regeneration. In addition, the metal leaching and segregation reconstruction can also lead to catalyst deactivation by high PDH temperatures and complex atmospheres. Although many efforts have been made, further understanding of the deactivation mechanism and proposals of effective strategies should be achieved.
3.2 Active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms over metal oxide-based catalysts
3.2.1 Active sites To achieve a comprehensive understanding of propane dehydrogenation behavior on metal oxide-based catalysts, identifying the exact nature of Lewis acid MO sites on which the adsorption of paraffin molecules takes place is quite necessary. However, due to their structural complexity and the diversity of MO coordination, the understanding of the nature of the active sites for PDH is still in progress.
For CrOx-based catalysts, as discussed above, unsaturated and/or clustered Cr3+ sites are usually considered to be the active sites. The four possible active structures of CrOx/Al2O3 structures are isolated mono-alumina chromate, isolated polymeric alumina chromate, chromiumchromate and aluminumchromiumchromate (Fig. 15ad).90,91 Similarly, for VOx-based catalysts, monovanadate, polyvanadate, and V2O5 crystallite species can coexist on the support based on the vanadium loading.98,145,146 Typically, the tetrahedral structure containing one VO bond and three bridging oxygen atoms (namely, VOsupport or VOV) is the most likely structure for low polymeric supported vanadium oxides.147 Many studies have shown that monomeric vanadium clusters manifest a high CH bond activation ability.148150 Fig. 15 Active sites and dehydrogenation pathway on metal oxides. Proposed Cr6+ species and their structures on the surfaces of fresh and equilibrated CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts: (a) isolated mono-alumina chromate, (b) isolated polymeric alumina chromate, (c) chromiumchromate, and (d) aluminumchromiumchromate. Reproduced with permission from ref. 90. Copyright 2017 Elsevier. (e) Dehydrogenation of propane catalyzed by isolated mono-alumina chromate. The numbers in parentheses are the Gibbs free energies of the corresponding intermediates, and those on the arrows are the Gibbs free energies of the transition states. (f) Most favorable free-energy pathways for dehydrogenation (in green) and cracking (in blue) of propane by isolated mono-alumina chromate. All energies are given in kcal mol1. Reproduced with permission from ref. 93. Copyright 2015 American Chemical Society. (g) Energy potential plot for the elementary path for PDH on three defined supported vanadium oxide surfaces. Reproduced with permission from ref. 152. Copyright 2018 Wiley-VCH. (h) DFT calculated proposed catalytic reaction pathway for olefin hydrogenation and alkane dehydrogenation on a single-site, Zn Lewis acid catalyst. The reaction free energies (kcal mol1) are shown in the inset. Reproduced with permission from ref. 154. Copyright 2014 American Chemical Society.
Over GaOx and ZrO2-based catalysts, there seem to be different dehydrogenation active sites. For GaOx-based catalysts, the activity for PDH is strongly dependent on the structure of Ga species. For bulk GaOx, some researchers think that Ga3+ ions are evenly distributed on the octahedron and tetrahedron, which can provide a large number of weak acid sites. Moreover, recently the [GaH]2+ ions together with a basic framework oxygen of the Brnsted-acid site were identified as the active sites in the case of Ga species in ZSM-5 zeolites. Over ZrO2-based catalysts, coordinatively unsaturated Zr4+ cations (Zrcus) are the active sites exhibiting PDH activity and selectivity.108 Two Zr cations located at an oxygen vacancy are responsible for homolytic CH bond dissociation using quantum chemical calculations.108 Zrcus sites open an alternative pathway for homolytic CH bond activation with a lower activation barrier in comparison with non-defected ZrO2, where lattice oxygen and zirconium cations are required for this process on the stoichiometric surface of ZrO2.
Therefore, the complex structures and pretreatment of metal oxides make it difficult to reveal the nature of the active sites, especially under the reaction conditions. Further in situ or operando characterization methods should be used to reveal the active sites.
3.2.2 Dehydrogenation pathways Differing from the dehydrogenation pathway on Pt-based catalysts, the dehydrogenation over metal oxides is significantly dependent on their structures and coordination environments. We mainly focus on the possible dehydrogenation pathway on representative CrOx- and VOx-based catalysts.
For CrOx-based catalysts, the possible mechanism of PDH reaction over the isolated, unsaturated and/or clustered Cr3+ active sites has been studied. Typically, the propane adsorbed would be converted into a CrC3H8 η3-H,H,H adduct.93,151 Heterolytic activation of a CH bond yields a Cr3+C3H7 intermediate. Subsequently, the β-H in the Cr3+C3H7 intermediate would be transformed on Cr3+ to form Cr3+C3H6 hydride surface species. Then, C3H6 would be released and H2 would form, completing the catalytic cycle (Fig. 15e and f). The formation of methane, ethane, and ethylene indicates that cracking processes also occur under experimental conditions. For VOx-based catalysts, due to their various VO bonds, there are different CH activation and propylene desorption energy barriers. Three γ-Al2O3 supported dimer V2OxHy models were constructed to represent the catalysts with different pretreatment methods. The highest dehydrogenation barrier of 1.98 eV was found over V2O5H2 according to DFT calculation which corresponds to the lowest initial activity and the presence of surface VOH groups during the experiment. It showed that dehydrogenation activity is under great influence of the OH group even though it does take part in the CH cleavage indirectly (Fig. 15g).152 The experiment showed that the same strongly adsorbed species occurs during both propane dehydrogenation and propylene hydrogenation. According to such an intermediate which may correspond to V species containing a CC bond, i.e., VC3H5, a reaction mechanism was proposed.98 In addition to the typical dehydrogenation pathways on metal oxides, Adam S. Hock and coworkers reported a non-redox mechanism for activation of CH and HH bonds by single-site Co2+ and single-site Zn2+/SiO2.153,154 Heterolytic CH bond activation in propane on a [ZnO] active site is the energetically most favorable pathway. The integrated mechanism of PDH on the silica-supported Co2+ catalyst is that Co alkyl and surface hydroxyl OH are generated by heterolytic cleavage of a CH bond over CoO and subsequently evolve C3H6 by β-hydride elimination. The initial CoO resting state can be restored with the H2 generation and desorption after the cobalt hydride reacts with the adjacent hydroxyl proton (Fig. 15h).
Therefore, the dehydrogenation is different and complex over different metal oxides. Additionally, at present, the identification of dehydrogenation pathways can only be achieved with the help of theoretical simulation. Experimental observation to reveal the reaction intermediates and pathways remains a grand challenge.
3.2.3 Deactivation mechanisms During the dehydrogenation of propane, because of the adsorption of paraffin molecules on MO sites in metal oxides, the acidbase pairs of metal oxide dehydrogenation catalysts are deactivated owing to coke deposition, and as for Pt-based catalysts, periodical regeneration become indispensable. Although the catalysts recover most of their activity after each reactionregeneration cycle, the loss of activity due to the sintering in the regeneration process is not entirely reversible. In addition, due to the reducibility of some metal oxides, the metal oxides can be reduced to the lower oxidation state or even the metallic state. According to the dehydrogenation mechanisms on the metal oxides, controllable regulations of structures and electronic properties, as well as the supports and coverage of the reactants and coke intermediates, can therefore help inhibit the deactivation of metal oxide-based catalysts.
3.2.3.1 Coke formation
3.2.3.1.1 Coking mechanism Compared with metal-based catalysts, coke formation on metal oxides is more complex due to their more complex structures. The coke formation could cover the Lewis acid sites of metal oxides and alter their catalytic properties. For CrOx-based catalysts, as shown in Fig. 16a, two typical Raman bands corresponding to coke deposits are observed. The G band (1590 cm1) corresponds to the ring vibration of a perfect graphitic lattice, while the D1 band (1320 cm1) corresponds to the ring vibrations of defects and edges of the graphitic lattice.92 It is seen that both the yields of the C1C3 byproducts and the coke increased with the Cr6+ concentration in the catalyst. Increasing the Cr6+ concentration from 0.78 to 1.68% caused simultaneous increases of the C1C3 yield from 2.3 to 3.3% and the coke yield from 2.81 to 3.8% (Fig. 16b).90 Evgenii V. Kondratenko and coworkers allowed gaining novel insight into coke formation by kinetic evaluation of the obtained data combined with characterization of VOx species.97 The kinetic analysis of thermogravimetric analysis profiles suggested that a carbon monolayermultilayer model can accurately describe this process. In this model, coke deposition is supposed to occur over the carbon-free catalyst surface as well as the already formed carbon deposits, and another term is used to represent the elimination of oxygen of the catalyst under reduction. To obtain the corresponding rate constants, the weight curves were fitted according to eqn (7).
(7) where mc is the maximum mass of the monolayer coke deposits, i.e. the amount after the catalyst was fully covered by monolayer coke deposition; k1 and k2 are the rate constants of coke formation over the carbon-free catalyst surface and over carbon deposits, respectively; and m0 and k0 stand for the weight loss upon reduction of the catalysts and the rate constant of this process, respectively. The stability of catalysts is determined by their coke resistance ability, which is identified by an explicit relationship between the catalyst deactivation rate and the rate constant of carbon formation. Notably, when the degree of VOx polymerization was varied to reach nanocrystalline V2O5, the rate constant of carbon deposition sharply increased. This tendency was interpreted through a universal mechanism of coke formation  adsorbed propylene or its fragments in close proximity to each other can easily generate carbon precursors. Such a situation is preferably realized on larger VOx species, whereas on smaller ones it is statistically less possible.
Fig. 16 Anti-coking strategies over metal oxide-based catalysts. Coke formation: (a) operando Raman spectra of CrOx/Al2O3 obtained over time. Reproduced with permission from ref. 92. Copyright 2014 Wiley-VCH. (b) Coke and light gas (C1C3 compounds) yields as functions of the Cr6+ concentration in fresh AlCr13.2 catalysts at 567 C. Reproduced with permission from ref. 90. Copyright 2017 Elsevier. Oxidation state manipulation: (c) oxidation state manipulation over VOx-based catalysts, and various VOx/Al2O3 with the loadings of V, (d) the ratios of V5+, V4+ and V3+ with the V loadings, and (e) the relationships of performances with different V valence states. Reproduced with permission from ref. 98. Copyright 2016 American Chemical Society. Dispersion increasing: (f) structure illustration of Mg doping and (g) performance over Mg-doped VOx/Al2O3 catalysts with Mg additions. Reproduced with permission from ref. 155. Copyright 2017 Wiley-VCH. Cofeeding stream: (h) structure illustration of H2 pretreatment and (i) performances over VOx/Al2O3 catalysts with different H2 pretreatment times. Reproduced with permission from ref. 152. Copyright 2018 Wiley-VCH.
In order to inhibit the coke formation, which is significantly influenced by the valence states and dispersion structures, various strategies including oxidation state modulation, increasing dispersion, poisoning acid sites and cofeeding streams have been operated.
3.2.3.1.2 Oxidation state manipulation Manipulating the oxidation states can affect the local electronic structure of the metal centers and the corresponding Lewis acidity. On fresh VOx-based catalysts, there are many kinds of V species, including isolated Vn+, oligomeric Vn+, and crystalline V2O5, which showed different ratios of V5+, V4+ and V3+ (Fig. 16c and d).98 Generally, isolated, unsaturated and/or clustered V3+ Lewis-acid sites are regarded as the active sites not only for PDH but also for cracking and deep dehydrogenation. Compared with V3+, V4+ and V5+ species can effectively inhibit the coke formation due to the involvement of lattice oxygen (Fig. 16e). However, during the reductive atmosphere of PDH, V4+ and V5+ species could be quickly reduced. 3.2.3.1.3 Increasing dispersion The rate constant of coke formation was found to increase with the degree of polymerization of VOx species. Gong's work proposed that while 12 wt% V supported on γ-Al2O3 (12 V/Al2O3) corresponding to a theoretical monolayer coverage of 8 V nm2 suffers from rapid deactivation due to severe coke deposition, it showed the best activity. In spite of the fact that the V-loading is not beyond the theoretical V-density for monolayer coverage, exhaustive characterization proves the appearance of three dimensional V2O5 nanoparticles.98,155 Therefore, dispersing the three dimensional V2O5 nanoparticles into two dimensional structures could be an achievable method to decrease the coke deposition.
The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines the form of the species. Deactivation is low for single VOx sites but increases with increasing degree of aggregation of VOx species with increasing VOV bonds. In addition, doping can also help increase the dispersion of VOx species. An encouraging effect of magnesium has been suggested to stabilize VOx/Al2O3 catalysts for PDH, according to the research of Wu et al.155 The conventional incipient wetness impregnation method was used to prepare a series of Mg-free and Mg-modified VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (Fig. 16f). When Mg addition increases, the C3H6 selectivity is improved from 82% to 93%. They showed that the stability of a 12 V/Al2O3 catalyst is significantly improved upon moderate (1 wt%) Mg modification. Experimental evidence indicated that appropriate Mg addition promotes the dispersion of V2O5 nanoparticles from three dimensional to two dimensional VOx species which extremely reduce coke deposition and then enhance stability on a large scale. When the Mg content is equal to or less than 1 wt%, the catalysts exhibit the same initial C3H8 conversion, while the deactivation rate slows down monotonically as the Mg content increases. However, once the loading of Mg exceeds 1 wt%, the initial activity decreases with increasing Mg loading (Fig. 16g).
3.2.3.1.4 Poisoning acid sites Although metal oxides (such as Al2O3 and ZrO2) have been widely studied as supports for CrOx and VOx catalysts, the stability is still too low due to the strong acidity of supports. As for supported Pt-based catalysts, acidic sites are also undesirable which can be poisoned by doping with alkali metals like K, Na, Ca and Mg. It is revealed that the amount of acidic sites of CrZrO catalysts is reduced for K (0.2%, 0.5%, or 1%) doping, leading to an enhanced C3H6 selectivity and resistance to coke formation in PDH reaction.156,157 However, the addition of K species would also have an adverse influence on the PDH process. An appropriate promoter that improves the overall activity, selectivity, and anti-coking capability is still under discovery. 3.2.3.1.5 Cofeeding stream As metal oxide-based catalysts, to promote propylene productivity, CO2 as a mild oxidant can be cofed during propane dehydrogenation. There are significant roles of CO2, including removal of coke deposition, reoxidation of the reduced metal oxides, and hydrogen consumption via the reverse watergas shift reaction (RWGS). Ogonowski et al. found that the roles remarkably depend on the kinds of supports.158 When the basicity is appropriate, CO2 can promote the occurrence of RWGS. However, when these basic sites in supports are extensively strong, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites. When there are no basic sites on supports, the effects of CO2 cofeeding are very weak. Comparatively, the increase of acidity could increase the coke formation on supports.
In addition, cofeeding H2 can effectively tune the coverage of surface hydroxyl groups on the supported metal oxides, and thus tune the desorption barrier of propylene. By combining experimental and theoretical calculation studies, Gong and coworkers demonstrated that the hydroxyl groups caused by H2 pretreatment and cofeeding on VOx-based catalysts exhibited a positive relationship with the propylene selectivity and anti-deactivation resistance.152 For example, when VOx catalysts were pretreated with H2, leading to the formation of surface VOH, the propylene selectivity could be improved and the coke amount could be decreased (Fig. 16h). As a result, the H2 pretreatment time significantly influences the concentration of surface VOH and thus the initial activity and stability (Fig. 16i), where longer H2 pretreatment contributes to the lower deactivation rates despite the lower conversion. The DFT calculations showed that the binding strength of C3H6 over V2O3 is very strong (2.05 eV), which is much favorable for deep dehydrogenation to form C3H5 rather than desorption compared with the surface covered with hydroxyl. Therefore, desorption of propylene could be inhibited over the highly reduced V2O3 in the absence of VO and VOH, leading to deep dehydrogenation and coke deposition. Comparatively, the existence of surface VOH blocks the exposure of V ions, leading to a lower desorption energy of propylene and higher propylene selectivity.
3.2.3.2 Other deactivation As discussed above, cracking and coking side processes occur that make oxidative regeneration necessary with the overall reductionregeneration cycle being around 20 minutes. Thus, deactivation caused by regeneration is another deactivation phenomenon. For CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, Cr-containing species on the surfaces of the supported catalysts undergo multiple redox cycles. In a reductive atmosphere, Cr6+Ox and Cr5+Ox species reduce to Cr3+Ox and coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ ions appear on the surface. In the regeneration stage, Cr6+Ox and Cr5+Ox species appear again on reoxidation with concomitant spreading on the surface.159 One of the features of CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts is the absence of complete reversibility of the CrOx surface species into their original state on reoxidation. As a consequence, a monotonic decrease of catalytic activity from cycle-to-cycle is frequently observed owing to the surface concentration decrease of active sites.
In addition, the alteration of surface composition and phase structure could induce catalyst deactivation. For example, γ-alumina could transform to θ- or even α-alumina at high temperatures, leading to a decrease of surface area. Doping with another component could inhibit the transformation process. For example, B. Ersoy et al. observed that the addition of La2O3 to solgel derived alumina gels increased the γ-Al2O3 to α-Al2O3 transformation temperature to 1200 C.160 In addition, reduction of metal oxides to their metallic state can also lead to the loss of active components and activity. For example, as reducible oxides, ZnO-based catalysts obtained by supporting methods often suffer from rapid deactivation, which is attributed to the continuous reduction of ZnO species via water elimination during the dehydrogenation reaction process.161,162 It is reported that Zn/ZSM-5 with isolated Zn2+ ions stabilized at the cation-exchange sites exhibits exceptional stability, which can be explained by the catalyst structure where O is bound to the framework Si/Al atoms of zeolites, resulting in great resistance towards reduction. In addition, doping of noble Pt can also inhibit the reduction deactivation.163 On the one hand, the Lewis acidity of ZnO can be increased with the transfer between ZnO and Pt atoms. On the other hand, the H2 over the ZnO surface could more easily desorb, leading to the inhibition of H2O formation.162
4. Advances in catalyst design
According to the dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms over the specific active sites on metal and metal oxide-based catalysts, active, selective and stable catalysts are highly desired in the PDH process. Although various catalysts have shown superior dehydrogenation performance, the efficient design strategies and new chemistry have not been well summarized. Therefore, in the next section, several advanced catalyst design strategies, such as alloying/dealloying, single atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis, defect engineering, metal-hydride chemistry, and the newly developed chemistry in mediating SMSI over metal and metal oxide-based catalysts, have been introduced. Optimal design should rationally consider the aforementioned effects and maximize the benefits.
4.1 Advances in Pt-based catalyst design
4.1.1 Alloying/dealloying As discussed above, bimetallic catalysts have been widely investigated to break the scaling relationship during PDH reaction, which can increase the geometric dispersion and lower the C3H6 desorption energy and, thus increase the selectivity. A series of alloy materials including PtCu, PtZn, PtIn, and PtGa have been demonstrated for highly efficient propylene production. Gong and coworkers demonstrated a computational calculation research study on probability-based sifting, leading to a successful identification of an optimum bimetallic alloy (Pt3In) for PDH (Fig. 17a).164 Owing to the uncertainty of DFT calculation, Pt3In turned out to exhibit a catalytic activity resembling that of pure Pt and Pt3Sn as well as a mass enhancement in the propylene selectivity compared with pure Pt. In addition to metal promoters, non-metal promoters can also be effectively alloyed with Pt recently. Boration of Pt metal surfaces extends the lifetime of the catalyst by preventing coke adsorption. Anastassia N. Alexandrova and coworkers theoretically probed boron as a dopant for small Pt clusters deposited on magnesia, and found that it reduces the affinities of these systems to carbon atoms (Fig. 17b).165 In what follows, they showed that nano-alloying with boron dramatically changes the properties of alkene binding and dehydrogenation.
Fig. 17 Advances in catalyst design over Pt-based catalysts. Alloying/dealloying: (a) screening of Pt-based bimetallic alloys for PDH. Reproduced with permission from ref. 164. Copyright 2018 Royal Society of Chemistry. (b) Structure illustrations of PtB alloys. Reproduced with permission from ref. 165. Copyright 2017 American Chemical Society. Single-atom catalysis: (c) scaling relationship between the first dehydrogenation barrier and propylene desorption barrier/deep dehydrogenation barrier. (d) HAADF-STEM images with a typical region of the reduced 0.1Pt10Cu/Al2O3 catalyst, showing Pt atoms individually dispersed on Cu(111). Reproduced with permission from ref. 135. Copyright 2018 Nature. Subsurface catalysis: (e) relationship between C3H6 selectivity and d-band center shifting, and (f) EDS line profiles of leached PtFe@Pt/SBA-15 (inset of the nanoparticle). Reproduced with permission from ref. 47. Copyright 2018 Science. SMSI: (g) specific rate of C3H6 formation versus WHSV for two types of PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst, and (h) HAADF-STEM image of the PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalysts. Reproduced with permission from ref. 73. Copyright 2015 Wiley-VCH.
In contrast to alloying, a chemical reaction involving the selective separation and removal of one constituent element from the alloy, causing degradation of its intrinsic properties. Considering the highly reductive atmosphere, one component in the Pt-based alloy could segregate to the surface, leading to non-selective CC bond cleavage. For example, for PtM (M = Fe, Co, Ni) alloys, the surface M metals decrease the C3H6 selectivity because of the easier CC cracking on exposed M sites. Acid leaching treatment of PtM alloys can wipe off the surface M atoms, leaving those in subsurface sites intact because of the shielding of a Pt shell, thus creating a Pt-skin or Pt-skeleton surface with M atoms in subsurface sites and inhibiting the CC cracking on exposed M sites.47
4.1.2 Single atom catalysis Although PtM bimetals extensively improve the activity and selectivity, compared with pure Pt, it is still restricted by the scaling relationship in PtM alloys wherein the activity and selectivity are mutually restricted. Because of the ultimate dispersion of active metals and the homogeneous composition of the active species, single-atom catalysts (SACs) including supported single atoms, single-atom alloys (SAAs) and intermetallic alloys (IMAs) have demonstrated the ability to break the scaling relationship with excellent catalytic activity and selectivity in PDH reactions. The single atom Pt site ensembles weaken the interaction between the propylene intermediate and its surface through a single bond instead of more stable three PtC interactions on 3-fold hollow sites over Pt clusters. However, the provenance of the promoted catalytic performance of the single atom catalysis remains under argument. The current review also compiles evidence for the deep comprehension of the catalytic properties of SACs. 4.1.2.1 Supported Pt single atoms Supports have played an obviously important role in single atom catalysts. The mutual action between the SACs and the supports both provides the catalysts mechanical strength and exerts a prominent influence on their catalytic performance. Jones et al. mixed Pt/Al2O3 with CeO2 powder aged at 800 C which led to trapped atomic Pt catalysis.166 In their following work, they tested atomic PtSn catalysts supported on CeO2 in PDH.74 The CeO2 support can decentralize Pt catalyst and recover the original activity after regeneration. In another study, the Pt single atom is obtained in the framework of an MCM-22 support.167 More interestingly, the single Pt atom and subnanometer Pt clusters have good performance in the dehydrogenation of propane. Although the supported Pt single atoms have exhibited the superior ability of CH activation, the coordination environment and electronic state are significantly influenced by the support, leading to the formation of Pt ions and alteration of propylene adsorption, which should be carefully regulated. 4.1.2.2 Single atom alloys In addition to the oxide supports as discussed above, metals can also serve as efficient supports to disperse the Pt single atoms to form single atom alloys. Recently, E. C. H. Sykes and coworkers took a different method that utilized the minimum amount of a catalytically active metal (Pt) single atom in the upper layer of a non-active host metal (Cu) to enhance CH activation while shunning coke deposits that is characteristic of larger ensembles.45 These SAAs are viewed as analogies to single-atom catalysts. The authors further explored the reaction mechanism of CH activation on these alloy surfaces and figured out that Pt/Cu alloys activate CH bonds with prominently enhanced activity over Cu, while avoiding the coke deposits that typically occur with Pt ensembles due to Cu's ability to facilitate CC coupling reaction. Additionally, Gong and coworkers described that Pt/Cu SAA supported on Al2O3 (Fig. 17c) can break the scaling relationship for propane dehydrogenation to achieve simultaneous enhancements of propylene selectivity (90%) and propane conversion.135 They found that the isolated Pt atoms dispersed in the Cu nanoparticles (TEM image in Fig. 17d) maintain a moderate dehydrogenation activation barrier and simultaneously exhibit a fairly high selectivity, which is demonstrated by the low desorption barrier of propylene and high deep dehydrogenation barrier. However, the long-term stability of SACs under practical reaction conditions especially under the regeneration reactions is yet to be improved due to the low sintering resistance of the host metals despite their high activity and selectivity. 4.1.2.3 Intermetallic alloys Compared with SAAs, intermetallic alloys have shown excellent long-term stability in various chemical reactions because of their unusual structural stability while exhibiting single-site structures.168,169 Upon isolating Pt atoms with another metal and constructing an intermetallic structure, that is, a Pt-based IMA with single-atom Pt sites, desired catalysts with satisfactory catalytic selectivity and stability might be obtainable. By using in situ X-ray absorption and synchrotron X-ray diffraction, Jeffrey T. Miller and coworkers proposed that Pt1Zn1 IMAs are dominantly formed from precursors on amorphous SiO2.42 These bimetallic alloy catalysts contain segregated Pt atoms on their surfaces with solely metallic Zn nearest neighbors and exhibited high ethylene selectivity (100%) in ethane dehydrogenation at 600 C. Recently, Shinya Furukawa and coworkers reported that single atom Pt included in thermally stable intermetallic PtGa worked as an ultrastable and selective catalyst for PDH at high temperatures. Intermetallic PtGa displayed three-hold-Pt ensembles and single Pt atoms isolated by catalytically inert Ga at the surface, the former of which could be selectively blocked and disabled by Pb deposition.52 The PtGaPb/SiO2 catalyst exhibited 30% conversion with 99.6% propylene selectivity at 600 C for 96 h without lowering the performance. The single-atom Pt well catalyzed the first and second CH activation, but effectively inhibited the third one, which minimized the side reactions to coke and drastically improved the selectivity and stability. 4.1.3 Subsurface catalysis In addition to single-atom catalysis, subsurface catalysis can also improve the catalytic activity and utilization efficiency of Pt-based catalysts. As a design method for developing cost-reduced catalysts, core (nonprecious element)/shell structures where the Pt element is substituted with nonprecious elements have been widely used. Theoretical calculations have suggested that the d-band center of Pt on the surface would be downshifted by subsurface transition metals (TMs), which, as a consequence, attenuates the binding of adsorbates onto the Pt surface. In addition to the subsurface metal atoms, the population of C and H in the subsurface regions also potently influences the surface reactions and exerts a protrusive effect on the selectivity of propane dehydrogenation.
Gong and coworkers described a facile construction of Pt-3dTM@Pt [3dTM (3d transition metal) = Fe, Co, and Ni] coreshell catalysts (Fig. 17f).47 Experimental evidence indicated that the C3H6 selectivity of the PtFe@Pt/SBA-15 catalyst becomes 20% higher than that of the Pt/SBA-15 catalyst. The C3H6 desorption energy on pure Pt was expected to be 1.10 eV, higher than the 0.96 eV for the CH bond breaking of the C3H6*, revealing that the deep dehydrogenation of C3H6 preceded the desorption of C3H6, while on the Pt-skin surface with subsurface 3d transition metals (3dTMs), the situation was reversed. There exists a linear relationship between the relative d band center and propylene selectivity (Fig. 17e). As a result, Pt-skin catalysts with 3dTMs in the subsurface region exhibit higher C3H6 selectivity compared with pure Pt catalysts. However, the unique property and potential of subsurface layers on such catalysts remain to be investigated.
Recently, Jeffrey T. Miller and coworkers demonstrated a clear subsurface effect over two different intermetallic PtMn catalysts with different subsurfaces.49 The Pt3Mn catalyst contains intermetallic composites with a uniform phase composition and structure of Pt3Mn on both the subsurface and surface, while Pt3Mn-s, distinguished from Pt3Mn, possesses coreshell structure NPs with a regulated Pt3Mn intermetallic shell on a Pt core. A comparison between these two catalysts leads to rational evaluation of the effects of diverse subsurfaces (Pt vs. Pt3Mn) on the catalytic performance of supported NPs with the identical Pt3Mn surface. This subsurface effect can also be distinguished from a classic surface effect revealed by the difference between Pt3Mn-s and the reference Pt catalyst when comparing Pt3Mn to Pt3Mn-s, which discloses a distinct subsurface effect that is independent from the surface structure. They found that the Mn in the subsurface exerts a prominent influence on weakening the surface adsorption strength, most likely through bonding between subsurface atoms and surface atoms. The Pt3Mn intermetallic bulk has a lower adsorption energy for all the investigated adsorbates compared with the Pt3Mn intermetallic shell on the Pt core, verifying the existence of the subsurface effect. Such an effect can be modified by a diffusion controlled solid state transformation from the surface to the core for modulating the subsurface structure.
4.1.4 SMSI approach As discussed above, SMSI can help stabilize Pt nanoparticles during PDH reaction, while controllable regulation of the intensity of SMSI to tune the activity and selectivity remains a great challenge. It has been known that several properties of the support are crucial for charge transfer, such as its reducibility, conductivity, exposed crystal facets, morphology and defects. Analysis of the data acquired by a series of methods deduces a conclusion that the proposed approach to modifying platinum (a preliminary incorporation of the modifying element into the structure of the support) generates both geometric and ligand effects. Recently, several regulation strategies of SMSI have been newly developed.
Using mineral-type precursors with exchangeable metal cations homogeneously distributed in a well-defined crystal, metal nanoparticles highly dispersed on thermally and chemically stable oxides are readily formed upon calcination and reduction. The partial substitution of metal cations M2+/M3+ with two different kinds of metal ions could also produce a bimetallic catalyst with highly dispersed metal/metal alloys and modulate the interaction between Pt and supports. For example, a zinc-containing support substantially modifies the formation of supported platinum particles together with the adsorption and catalytic properties of platinum.137 The reduction of platinum from the oxide precursors anchored onto the support and the simultaneous Pt-promoted partial reduction of zinc resulted in the formation of supported bimetallic particles whose composition and mutual action with the support depend on the zinc content.
Additionally, altering the defect amounts of supports has been demonstrated to regulate the SMSI. For Al2O3 supported Pt catalysts, previous results have shown that coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ (Al3+ penta) sites abounding on the (100) facets of the γ-Al2O3 surface serve as anchoring sites of Pt. At relatively low loadings, the active catalytic species are atomically dispersed on the support surface (Al3+ penta/Pt = 1), whereas two-dimensional Pt rafts are formed at higher degrees of coverage (Fig. 17g).80 Recently, a highly active and stable PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst for the PDH reaction has been synthesized by An-Hui Lu and coworkers, using γ-Al2O3 nanosheets as a support that is rich in pentacoordinate Al3+ ions. Such Al2O3 nanosheets exhibit extraordinary performance in decentralizing and stabilizing raft-like PtSn clusters with increasing electron density of Pt sites and electronic interactions between the two metals (Fig. 17h).73
4.2 Advances in metal oxide-based catalyst design
4.2.1 Mixed oxides Using mixed-metal oxides is one of the most frequently used approaches in metal oxide-based catalyst design. The substitution disrupts chemical bonding at the surface of the host oxide, and optimists hope that this will modify favorably its catalytic activity. The active centers in such a system could be either the oxygen atoms near the dopant or the dopant itself. This is not the only kind of creative disturbance that can activate the surface of an oxide. The catalytic activity of a small (molecular size) cluster MOx (where M is a cation, O is oxygen, and x is usually unknown) supported on the surface of another oxide (or any other insulator) is often very different from that of the bulk oxide of M.170,171 For example, VOx clusters supported on ZrO2 are more active for PDH than either V2O5 or ZrO2.172 The interaction between VOx and ZrO2 can promote the reduction of VO bonds, including VO, VOV and VOZr. This effect could be induced by the formation of low coordinated V species in VOx/ZrO2. The so-called inverse catalysts are similar. They consist of a very thin oxide film supported on a metal surface. Fundamentally, the interfacial structure of the mixed oxides plays a significant role in their superior performance when designing a mixed-metal oxide catalyst. Recently, the development of refined preparation methods such as incipient wet impregnation, coprecipitation and solgel synthesis contributes to the maximum of interfacial structures by atomic modulation. As discussed above, the coordinatively unsaturated GaH species show higher activity than other Ga species. Recently, Julia Vecchietti et al. prepared ceriumgallium mixed oxides through co-precipitation methods.173 On the ceriagallia mixed oxides interfaces, gallium sites break the HH bond forming GaH and OH surface sites, which recombine to form water and an oxygen vacancy that reduce Ce4+ to Ce3+. It is proposed that the generation of GaOCe sites in the periphery of such surface gallia nanodomains contributes to the promoted reactivity of the mixed oxides.
On bulk mixed oxides, the introduction of heterogeneous metal effectively tunes the host metal oxides. Doping of metal oxides is generally explored to acquire promoted electronic, optical, and catalytic performance. The major mechanism behind such property tuning is to reach control over doping that modifies electron transfer characteristics. For example, Chen et al. used the co-impregnation method and prepared Mo atomic-scale doped MoVO mixed oxides (TEM and line profiles in Fig. 18a and b).174 The atomic-scale doping of Mo atoms effectively modulate the VO coordination, suppressing the lattice oxygen diffusion and exhibiting higher selectivity of propylene.
Fig. 18 Advances in catalyst design over metal oxide-based catalysts. Mixed oxides: (a) representative aberration corrected-STEM image. Blue arrows point to single Mo atoms. (b) HAADF intensity line profiles (data points) across Mo and V atoms and structure models. Reproduced with permission from ref. 174. Copyright 2019 American Chemical Society. Organometallic chemistry: (c) DFT-optimized cluster models showing 3-membered siloxane rings on silica before and after Zn incorporation. Reproduced with permission from ref. 153. Copyright 2015 American Chemical Society. (d) Wavelet transform (WT) analysis of EXAFS data for [(SiO)3Ga(XOSi Ξ)] (3, X = H or Ξ Si) (bottom). Reproduced with permission from ref. 106. Copyright 2017 Royal Society of Chemistry. Defect engineering: (e) structureperformance relationship over defect ZrO2. Reproduced with permission from ref. 108. Copyright 2015 Wiley-VCH. (f) DFT-optimized cluster model of defected ZrO2. Reproduced with permission from ref. 111. Copyright 2019 Elsevier. [MH]x+ chemistry: (g) selected view of the cells used as the model for the mixed ceria-gallia catalysts with isolated gallia sites. Reproduced with permission from ref. 173. Copyright 2017 Elsevier. (h) Enthalpy (solid lines) and free energy (dashed lines) profiles for the bifunctional LewisBrnsted acid mechanism. Reproduced with permission from ref. 102. Copyright 2018 American Chemical Society.
4.2.2 Organometallic chemistry Based on the active sites and deactivation mechanism, it has been acknowledged that a metal oxide with higher dispersion presents higher propylene selectivity and stability. For example, it suggests that isolated VOx species show higher intrinsic activity in comparison with their oligomerized counterparts. However, the conventional preparation methods cannot obtain the homogeneous structures of single-sites.
Surface organometallic chemistry brings about the generation of well-defined surface species on various supports by colonising tailored molecular precursors on supports with segregated OH sites. Additionally, creating isolated metal sites on non-reducible supports such as silica could inhibit reduction and lead to the development of catalysts with promoted stability under PDH conditions. Christophe Copret and coworkers described the synthesis and structural characterization of the molecular complex [Ga(OSi(OtBu)3)3(THF)] (Fig. 18d) and its exploitation as a precursor for creating gallium single-sites on silica. These isolated gallium sites were acquired through grafting of [Ga(OSi(OtBu)3)3(THF)] on silica and subsequent heating at 500 C under high vacuum. The presented gallium species exhibit excellent catalytic performances with considerably high activity, selectivity and stability in the dehydrogenation of propane.106 Similarly, Adam S. Hock recently reported that single-site Zn2+ (Co2+) on a silica catalyst (Fig. 18c) prepared by tuning the pH of the solution using concentrated ammonium hydroxide (NH4OH) is catalytically active for propane dehydrogenation, exhibiting 95% selectivity at 550 C.153,154 The oxidation state of Zn remains unchanged under propane at reaction temperature due to the ZnOSi bonds.
4.2.3 Defect engineering Defects of metal oxides, such as atom vacancies and dopants, show the possibility of adsorbing unconventional PDH intermediates and, thus, selectively enhancing the corresponding pathway toward propylene. It is suggested that coordinatively unsaturated metal cations (M
x+ cus ) that are close to oxygen vacancies act as adsorption sites for light alkanes. Surface oxygen sites serve as H acceptors, abstracting H from the adsorbed alkane molecules.
As discussed above, defected ZrO2-based materials are active and durable for non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation (Fig. 18e). Reductive pretreatment of the catalysts prominently enhances catalytic activity due to the generation of Zrcus sites. The existence of Ru on the surfaces of ZrO2-based catalysts promotes H spillover and thus further facilitates reduction of ZrO2 (Fig. 18f).109 In addition to bulk ZrO2, partially reduced ZnO175 and WO3176 can act as the catalysts for PDH when oxides are activated by hydrogen pretreatment and/or co-feeding. Their catalytic activity is subject to hydrogen pretreatment time and the feed gas composition.
In addition to the defect sites as the active sites, the defect can also effectively modulate the adsorption of the propylene intermediate. As discussed above, the incipient activity and deactivation rate turned out to be linearly relevant to the intensity of the VOH band which reflects the quantity of the hydroxyl groups on the VOx species. The presence of surface VOH decreases the desorption barrier of propylene and thus promotes the desorption of propylene and decreases the coke formation.
4.2.4 [MH]x+ chemistry Hydrides on metallic surfaces manifest high mobility, while hydrides on the surfaces of metal oxides are viewed as comparatively stable due to their site segregation (isolated surface hydrides). Their formation is motivated by the heterolytic activation of H2 on pair sites of oxygen (O) and metal (M) atoms (MO bonds on metal oxides, unbound M and O pairs, and metalsupport interfaces) or the homolytic activation of H2 on metallic surfaces or on metal oxides that involves simultaneous reduction of the metal sites (Fig. 18g).
Recently Kenichi Shimizu and coworkers found the formation of indium (In)-hydride species supported by chabazite (CHA) zeolites after H2 pretreatment at high temperatures (>500 C).177In situ Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy and DFT calculations demonstrated that the [InH2]+ ion on a framework anionic site is the authentic structure. Kinetic and in situ spectroscopic studies together with transition state (TS) calculations suggested that [InH2]+ ions function as catalytically active sites for selective dehydrogenation. Additionally, the active sites for PDH in Ga/H-ZSM-5 with medium quantities of tetrahedral aluminum in the lattice were distinguished to be LewisBrnsted acid pairs.102 The [GaH]2+, together with a basic framework oxygen of the Brnsted-acid site, heterolytically activates a propane CH bond with a very low intrinsic enthalpy barrier of 56 kJ mol1. This LewisBrnsted acid pair turned out to be far more active than an isolated Ga+, which can be attributed to the increasing Lewis acidity upon protonation of Ga+ by the Brnsted acid site which promotes heterolytic CH bond activation (Fig. 18h). Besides, the Brnsted acid site prominently detruncates the activation barrier for H2 elimination which is considerably high for the isolated Ga+ because the proton originates from an alkyl CH bond with the simultaneous elimination of propene.
5. Summary and perspectives
In this review, we have summarized current understandings of catalyst development, new chemistry, and emerging technologies in catalytic propane dehydrogenation. However, steps will need to be taken to overcome drawbacks of this reaction and improve the energy efficiency, that is, the limited equilibrium conversion and the prevalence of side reactions at high temperatures. Additionally, great efforts have been made to improve the performances of CrOx- and Pt-based catalysts by using various strategies. However, further improvements with lower noble metal loadings and deactivation rates are highly desired. Moreover, advanced characterization and deeper discussion of active sites and reaction mechanisms under reaction conditions are still inadequate. Although grand opportunities exist, several major challenges in the aspects of dehydrogenation technologies, catalyst development and characterization as well as theoretical stimulation methods should be considered.
(1) An alternative dehydrogenation process is urgent. Although direct dehydrogenation routes have been industrialized, the propane productivity is still thermodynamically limited. Comparatively, ODH due to its favorable thermodynamics has the potential to improve reaction efficiency. Gaseous oxygen is often cofed to lower the reaction temperature and coke deposition. However, there remain grand challenges to inhibit the overoxidation of propylene to COx. Additionally, the active sites and reaction mechanisms are still on debate. Recently, I. Hermans and coworkers reported that hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) and boron nitride nanotubes (BNNTs) exhibited unique and hitherto unanticipated catalytic properties resulting in great selectivity to olefins of about 79% propylene and 12% ethylene.178 In addition, activating alkane CH bonds at low temperature may provide opportunities to improve the propylene selectivity. Jason F. Weaver and coworkers reported that ethane forms strongly-bound σ-complexes on IrO2(110) and that a large fraction of the complexes undergo CH bond cleavage at temperatures below 200 K.179 Partial hydrogenation of the IrO2(110) surface is crucial to increase propylene selectivity while decreasing the overoxidation to COx. Therefore, developing low-temperature and highly selective catalysts is the direction for their industrial application for ODH reactions.
In addition to ODH technology, chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation (CL-ODH) based on redox catalysts, which is capable of selectively oxidizing the hydrogen evolved by the selective hydrogen combustion (SHC) reaction, could be a moderate dehydrogenation technology.180,181 Recently, Gong and coworkers reported an alternative chemical looping oxidative dehydrogenation approach.32,174 At 500 C, MoVO mixed oxides achieve 89% propylene selectivity at 36% propane conversion over 100 dehydrogenationregeneration cycles. Due to the limited oxygen capacity and complex oxygen reactivity, modulating the lattice oxygen to selectively produce propylene during the redox cycles is crucial.
In addition, coupling exothermic reactions such as CO2 hydrogenation,118 ammonia synthesis,182 olefin refinment183,184 and hydrogen storage185 with the endothermic non-oxidative PDH can promote the transformation of propane. Appropriate reaction temperature and the matching of individual active sites are the key issues.
Besides, ambient temperature or near-ambient catalytic dehydrogenation processes including solar photocatalysis and electrocatalysis can significantly reduce energy consumption as well as operating costs compared with the conventional thermochemical dehydrogenation process. However, the performances of photocatalysts and electrocatalysts are still limited by their insufficient CH activation ability. More importantly, the reaction mechanism is still undiscovered due to the complex features in photocatalysis and electrocatalysis environments.
(2) Research on alternative catalysts to conventional metal and metal oxide-based catalysts remains a great challenge.186 Metal oxides such as VOx- and GaOx-based catalysts have been widely developed with the expectation that they could be superior alternatives to CrOx-based and Pt-based catalysts. However, their dehydrogenation performances are still unsatisfactory compared with the industrial catalysts. In addition, the types of supports, promoters and preparation methods significantly influence the catalyst structures. Therefore, developing novel efficient methods to further improve their dehydrogenation performance is highly desired.
Besides conventional Pt and oxide-based catalysts, transition-metal nitrides and carbides may offer promising economic alternatives to conventional noble-metal catalysts. A key issue for improving this class of materials is the development of synthesis methods that produce materials with high surface areas and particle sizes in the nanometer range.(3) Revealing the active sites and mechanisms of these catalysts under reaction conditions is highly urgent and challenging. Operando/in situ characterization techniques should be encouraged and operated, such as in situ and time-resolved XAFS, XRD, XPS, and environmental TEM (E-TEM). For industrial PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, the roles of different Sn species as well as the coking behaviors are still undiscovered. For metal oxide-based catalysts, various species exist on their surfaces. For example, there are various kinds of Cr species (such as Cr6+, Cr5+, Cr3+, Cr2+, isolated Cr, oligomeric Crn+, and crystalline Cr2O3) and Ga species (such as Ga3+, [GaH2]+, [GaH]2+, and polymorphs of gallium oxides) that exist on CrOx- and GaOx-based catalysts, which makes it difficult to identify the actual active sites, especially under PDH reaction conditions.
(4) Theoretical calculations are increasingly adopted to assist in explaining experimental results. However, the matching degree between experimental details and DFT models is limited due to the complexity of the practical catalysts and processes. It is pressing to establish a universal relationship between structure and activity. For example, for PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, the Sn species could be dynamically changed under reaction conditions. In this sense, it is urgently necessary to pay special attention to the research on more realistic models for dehydrogenation catalysts.
(5) Scale-up of dehydrogenation catalysts with well-defined structures is still full of grand challenges. The preparation of dehydrogenation catalysts with well-defined structures is highly fine and needs specific operation steps, especially for those shaped and single atom catalysts. Recent studies on single-site catalysis have focused on the exploitation of single-atom and/or single site Pt for PDH. However, the single atom Pt still suffers from sintering and reconstruction especially under PDH conditions. Therefore, developing thermodynamically stable single atom catalysts is highly desired in the field of propane dehydrogenation. Novel methods such as strong electrostatic adsorption, galvanic replacement, sequential reduction, and incipient wetness coimpregnation provide opportunities for the scale-up of production of single atom catalysts.
In summary, we have identified the development of advanced dehydrogenation technologies, catalyst design and new chemistry in catalytic propane dehydrogenation reactions. Despite the significant and challenging task ahead, we believe that a combination of intensified dehydrogenation processes, controllable synthesis methodologies, and fine characterization techniques, together with mechanistic investigation, will further ensure the development of propane dehydrogenation.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the performance of Metal-Ordered Mesoporous Silica (OMS) catalysts, particularly MCM-41 and SBA-15 supported VOx and CrOx, in Propane Dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions. Compare their structural properties and catalytic behavior to traditional metal oxide supports, discussing the advantages, limitations, and reaction mechanisms. How do factors such as lattice oxygen species and H2 pretreatment influence catalyst performance and deactivation in PDH reactions?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 