<quotes>
<p>There are, however, flaws related to the commercial catalysts with supported CrOx or Pt species14,15. According to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration17, workplace exposure to Cr(VI) may cause various health effects. A key drawback of Pt-based catalysts is their cost and deactivation triggered by sintering of Pt species. To re-disperse platinum, the catalysts are treated by ecologically harmful Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds15.</p>
<p>Recently, we developed eco-friendly and cost-efficient catalysts on the basis of ZrO2, which had, however, to be promoted with metal oxides and contain supported Ru or Rh NP to show high activity in the non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, n-butane or iso-butane1820.</p>
<p>Acidbase, redox and electrical conductivity properties of ZrO2 can also be controlled through crystallite size. A structural model of the active site is established owing to our multi-disciplinary approach combining density functional theory (DFT) calculations with a number of complementary experimental methods including catalytic tests. The active site consists of two Zr cations located at an oxygen vacancy, which homolytically break the CH bond in alkanes.</p>
<p>The kind of this site differs from that previously suggested by some of us for doped ZrO2-based catalysts18,19 and by other researchers for different metal oxides used for PDH2123, where metal cation and neighbouring lattice oxygen were assumed to form the active site. Bare ZrO2 designed especially to maximize the concentration of the active sites shows industrially relevant performance in comparison with commercial-like catalysts containing CrOx or Pt species and other alternative state-of-the-art catalysts.</p>
<p>No effect of the area would be visible if this catalyst property determined the activity exclusively. Moreover, although amorphous ZrO2 samples (ZrO2_24 and ZrO2_26 in Supplementary Table 1) possess the highest surface area, they showed the lowest activity. The PDH activity of ZrO2 is governed by the number of the active sites, which depends on the size of crystallites. A further experimental support for the importance of the latter catalyst property for PDH is the fact that apparent activation energy of propene formation depends on the size.</p>
<p>The activity-size relationship in Fig. 1a can be explained by an increase in the concentration of the catalytically active Zrcus sites with a decrease in crystallite size. To validate the importance of such sites for propene formation, catalytic tests were performed with ZrO2 treated with either H2 or CO at 550 C before testing in PDH at the same temperature. The idea was to create additional Zrcus sites through removal of lattice oxygen from ZrO2 in form of H2O or CO2. The rate of propene formation increased by a factor of 2 after 6 h on H2 stream in comparison with the non-treated sample (Fig. 1c).</p>
<p>When CO was used as a reducing agent, a seven-time increase in the rate of propene formation was achieved after only 30 min treatment. Such distinctive effects of the reducing agents on the increase in the rate are related to their ability to remove lattice oxygen from ZrO2 as proven by temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) tests with H2 or CO (Supplementary Fig. 5).</p>
<p>Our DFT calculations also predict that oxygen vacancies are easier formed through removal of lattice oxygen by CO than by H2 (Supplementary Table 3). The relevance of the so-generated surface defects for propene formation is further supported by the higher ratio of the yield of propene (Y(C3H6)) to that of cracking products (Y(C1C2)) in a broad range of propane conversion obtained over the CO-treated catalyst in comparison to its H2-treated counterpart (Fig. 1d).</p>
<p>The use of ZrO2 composed of small crystallites is also beneficial for propene selectivity, which increased with a decrease in the crystallite size (Fig. 1b). Such positive effect holds over a broad range of propane conversion (Supplementary Fig. 6).</p>
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The demand for propylene has driven the development of new production methods, particularly propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Commercial catalysts often contain CrOx or Pt species, which have drawbacks such as health risks associated with Cr(VI) exposure, high cost, and deactivation due to sintering of Pt species. These catalysts require treatment with harmful compounds like Cl2 or Cl-containing solutions to redistribute the Pt.

2. Researchers have developed eco-friendly and cost-effective catalysts based on ZrO2 that require promotion with metal oxides, specifically Ru or Rh nanoparticles, to demonstrate high activity in the non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, n-butane, or iso-butane.

3. The concentration of active sites, rather than surface area, determines the activity of ZrO2 catalysts. The active sites consist of two Zr cations located at an oxygen vacancy, which homolytically break the CH bond in alkanes. This type of site differs from those proposed for doped ZrO2-based catalysts and other metal oxides used for PDH.

4. The PDH activity of ZrO2 is governed by the number of active sites, which depends on the size of crystallites. This is supported by experimental evidence showing that the apparent activation energy of propene formation varies with the size of the crystallites.

5. The activity of ZrO2 catalysts can be enhanced by creating additional active sites through removal of lattice oxygen from ZrO2 using reducing agents like H2 or CO. This leads to an increase in the rate of propene formation.

6. DFT calculations predict that oxygen vacancies are easier formed through removal of lattice oxygen by CO compared to H2. The surface defects generated by CO play a crucial role in propene formation, leading to a higher yield of propene compared to H2 treatment.

7. The use of ZrO2 catalysts with small crystallite sizes improves propene selectivity. This positive effect is observed across a wide range of propane conversions.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 对于丙烯的需求增长推动了新生产方法的发展，尤其是丙烷脱氢（PDH）。商业催化剂通常包含CrOx或Pt物种，这些催化剂存在与Cr(VI)接触引起健康问题的风险、高昂的成本和由于Pt物种聚集导致的催化剂失活。这些催化剂需要使用有害化合物如Cl2或含Cl溶液处理以重新分布Pt。

2. 研究人员已经开发出基于ZrO2的环保且成本效益高的催化剂，需要通过添加金属氧化物，特别是Ru或Rh纳米颗粒来促进，在非氧化性丙烷脱氢过程中表现出高活性。

3. ZrO2催化剂的活性受其晶粒大小影响，而不是表面积。活性位点由位于氧空位上的两个Zr离子组成，它们能够同裂烷烃中的CH键。这种类型的位点与掺杂的ZrO2基催化剂和其他用于PDH的金属氧化物中提出的位点不同。

4. ZrO2的PDH活性由活性位点的数量决定，而活性位点的数量取决于晶粒大小。实验证据表明，丙烷转化过程中的活性能显着影响丙烯形成。

5. 通过使用还原剂如H2或CO从ZrO2中去除晶格氧可以增强ZrO2催化剂的活性，这会导致丙烯生成速率增加。 

6. DFT计算预测，相对于H2，CO更容易形成氧空位。表面缺陷产生的CO对于丙烯形成具有关键作用，导致与H2处理相比，丙烯的产率更高。

7. 使用晶粒大小较小的ZrO2催化剂提高了丙烯选择性。这种正向效应在丙烷转化范围较宽时仍然有效。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
