<quotes>

[1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
[2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
[3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
[4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
[5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
[6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
[7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
[8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
[9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
[10] "Surface segregation is also governed by temperature and by the presence of adsorbates."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The chemical composition at the surface of many alloys is significantly different from that in the bulk, a phenomenon called surface segregation, which has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry. Surface segregation influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, and can dramatically alter the catalytic activities of alloys. Pt, as an efficient catalyst, is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming, and has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells. For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals. The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved. Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals. Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR. For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst. Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon. Surface segregation is also governed by temperature and by the presence of adsorbates.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.许多合金的表面化学成分与体相显著不同，这种现象称为表面偏析，由于其对材料科学和表面化学的重要性，引起了大量的实验和理论关注。表面偏析影响许多重要的物理和化学性质，如渗透、表面吸附、晶体生长、金属腐蚀等，并且发现合金的催化活性可以通过表面偏析发生显著变化。Pt作为一种高效的催化剂，被用于许多重要的化学反应，如甲醇氧化和碳氢化合物重整。特别是，Pt已成为燃料电池中氧还原反应(ORR)最广泛使用的电催化剂。多年来，寻找Pt替代催化剂的努力主要集中在Pt基双金属合金上，其中一些铂被更便宜的金属取代。催化性质主要由双金属合金的表面几何形状和电子结构决定，当达到适当的结构时，催化效果可以显著提高。在Pt与3d金属合金化的情况下，报告了增强的ORR活性。值得注意的是，表面偏析在ORR中起着关键作用。例如，Stamenkovic等人比较了块体Pt3Co合金和Pt在退火合金表面最外层偏析产生的Pt-skin结构上的ORR动力学。他们注意到，ORR在Pt-skin表面上是独特的活性，反应速率是纯Pt催化剂的4倍。理论方法有助于阐明这种现象的驱动力和趋势。表面偏析也受温度和吸附物的存在控制。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
