<quotes>
[1] "The authors set out to accomplish two challenging goals in the writing of this book and they successfully accomplished both of them. Their first goal was to give examples of important, representative new catalytic oxidations and to consider them in a way that could lead to greater understanding of these reactions so that this insight might provide better design of catalytic oxidation processes."
[2] "The second goal that the authors set out was to take a fresh look at long established ideas and concepts, to ascertain their limitations and, by so doing delineate guidelines for future research."
[3] "Although the authors state, early on, that their goal is not to provide a comprehensive review of new oxidation process technology, they do a fine job of doing just that. Almost all new, and many established heterogeneous catalytic oxidation process technologies are covered at some point in this volume."
[4] "Detailed descriptions of nearly all aspects of the heterogeneous catalytic oxidation and ammoxidation of alkanes, alkenes and alkyl aromatics are provided from many different points of view including the catalysts, reaction conditions, applications, process concepts, reactor design and mechanisms."
[5] "The authors also highlight the enormous contributions made by catalytic oxidation technology to the chemical industry, noting that more than half the products made using catalytic processes and nearly all the monomers used for the production of fibers and plastics are obtained through selective oxidation."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Selective Oxidation by Heterogeneous Catalysis covers the major areas of industrial petrochemical production, presenting open questions and new opportunities. It elucidates fundamental concepts for better understanding of selective oxidation fields and catalyst design. The book uses concept by example to analyze representative cases, clarifying new concepts for future research. It discusses catalysts, reaction conditions, applications, process concepts, reactor design, and mechanisms related to heterogeneous catalytic oxidation and ammoxidation of alkanes, alkenes, and alkyl aromatics. The authors acknowledge the significant contributions of catalytic oxidation technology to the chemical industry, indicating that over half of the products produced through catalytic processes and nearly all monomers for fiber and plastic production are derived from selective oxidation.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
《异相催化选择氧化》涵盖了工业石油化工生产的重大领域，提出了开放问题和新机遇。它阐述了选择性氧化领域的基本概念，为未来研究提供了更好的理解。该书通过案例分析使用概念来阐明新的概念，为未来的研究提供了指南。它讨论了与异相催化氧化和烷烃、烯烃和芳基芳烃的氨氧化相关的催化剂、反应条件、应用、过程概念、反应器设计和机制。作者承认催化氧化技术对化学工业的巨大贡献，指出超过一半通过催化过程生产的产品以及几乎所有用于纤维和塑料生产的单体都来自于选择性氧化。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
