<quotes>
[1] "The authors set out to accomplish two challenging goals in the writing of this book and they successfully accomplished both of them."
[2] "Their first goal was to give examples of important, representative new catalytic oxidations and to consider them in a way that could lead to greater understanding of these reactions so that this insight might provide better design of catalytic oxidation processes."
[3] "The second goal that the authors set out was to take a fresh look at long established ideas and concepts, to ascertain their limitations and, by so doing delineate guidelines for future research."
[4] "Almost all new, and many established heterogeneous catalytic oxidation process technologies are covered at some point in this volume."
[5] "Detailed descriptions of nearly all aspects of the heterogeneous catalytic oxidation and ammoxidation of alkanes, alkenes and alkyl aromatics are provided from many different points of view including the catalysts, reaction conditions, applications, process concepts, reactor design and mechanisms."
[6] "The authors also highlight the enormous contributions made by catalytic oxidation technology to the chemical industry, noting that more than half the products made using catalytic processes and nearly all the monomers used for the production of fibers and plastics are obtained through selective oxidation."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Selective Oxidation by Heterogeneous Catalysis discusses the successful accomplishment of two challenging goals set by the authors. The first goal involved providing examples of important, representative new catalytic oxidations and considering them in a manner that promotes a deeper understanding of these reactions, thereby enabling better design of catalytic oxidation processes. The second goal entailed reevaluating long-standing ideas and concepts, identifying their limitations, and outlining guidelines for future research. The book extensively covers various aspects of heterogeneous catalytic oxidation and ammoxidation, including catalysts, reaction conditions, applications, process concepts, reactor design, and mechanisms. Moreover, it highlights the significant contributions of catalytic oxidation technology to the chemical industry, emphasizing its role in producing over half the products made using catalytic processes and almost all monomers utilized for fiber and plastic production through selective oxidation.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
《异质催化选择氧化》一书成功实现了作者设定的两个具有挑战性的目标。第一个目标是提供重要且代表性的新型催化氧化示例，并以促进对这些反应的更深入理解的方式考虑它们，从而为催化氧化过程的设计提供更好的见解。第二个目标是对长期存在的想法和概念进行了重新审视，确定了它们的局限性，并为此后研究制定了指导方针。该书全面涵盖了异质催化氧化和氨氧化的多个方面，包括催化剂、反应条件、应用、工艺概念、反应器设计和机制。此外，它强调了催化氧化技术在化学工业中的巨大贡献，指出通过选择性氧化生产的产品超过一半，用于纤维和塑料生产的几乎所有单体均通过选择性氧化获得。
