[1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
          [2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
          [3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
          [4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
          [5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
          [7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
          [8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
          [10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."
          [11] "Furthermore, similar to the use of the individual d-band center values for the prediction of binding energies, the difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in the environment of vacuum, hydrogen and oxygen."
          [12] "In order to further correlate DFT calculations with experimental results, a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship is derived to correlate thermodynamic stability from DFT calculations with kinetic barriers from experimental measurements for the Pt3dPt systems."
          [13] "Finally, empirical equations have been developed for predicting the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems both in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [14] "The large difference in the binding energies between the surface and subsurface structures demonstrates the need to understand the stability of these configurations in the reacting environment."
          [15] "As shown for the Pt3d bimetallic systems, the difference in the oxygen binding energy of oxygen for these two configurations is on the order of hundreds of kcal/mol."
          [16] "Based on Sabatiers principle, this would suggest that if a subsurface alloy structure exhibited the optimal binding properties (as for dehydrogenation and ORR), the surface structure would likely lead to intermediates bound too strongly and halt the reaction."
          [17] "Conversely, if the surface alloy structure were found to exhibit the optimal binding properties (as for steam reforming), the subsurface structure would be predicted to bind adsorbates too weakly and prevent the reaction from proceeding."
          [18] "The stability of the bimetallic structures has been considered with a number of atomic species, which can be extended to more complex adsorbates using scaling relationships."
          [19] "The DFT results in Fig. 2 predict that the subsurface PtMPt(111) configuration is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while the surface MPtPt(111) configuration is predicted to be preferred with 0.5 ML O."
          [20] "The DFT results predict that the surface 3dPtPt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen."
          [21] "Parallel with the predictions from DFT, experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [22] "The AES results suggest that there are two regions of segregation."
          [23] "The similar segregation behavior in Figs. 7 and 8 reveals that DFT predictions and experimental measurements on single crystal bimetallic surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrate, bridging the materials gap."
          [24] "The results from this prediction are shown in Fig. 9, where the left axis is the heat of reaction and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation for each Pt3dPt subsurface structure."
          [25] "Comparing these bimetallic systems, all the Pt3dPt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [26] "The linear trends in Fig. 10 for all the systems show that the correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can be used beyond the Pt3d alloys."
          [27] "The main modification of switching the admetal/host component is to shift the absolute driving potential of the segregation."
          [28] "This general stability trend predicts that all the bimetallic systems in Fig. 10 have the same thermodynamically preferred bimetallic configuration in each environment, with the subsurface configuration being preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and the surface configuration being favored with 0.5 ML O."



[1] "The formation of a Pt skin layer with predominantly (111)-oriented facets induced by dissolution of Fe atoms in a PtFe alloy for fuel cell applications is investigated for the first time by using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [2] "While electrochemical and other surface analysis techniques such as XPS, AES and EXAFS have been extensively used in the study of thin solid films, the information obtained from these methods is esssentially macroscopic and does not provide direct atomic-scale models for the film structures."
          [3] "In this paper, we report an in situ STM study of a PtFe film in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [4] "The small peak at 0.71 V indicated by an arrow is assigned to the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process.13 However, the peak decreased with each additional potential cycle and finally disappeared, resulting in a steady CV. This result shows that the potential cycles lead to increased dissolution of Fe and the rearrangement of Pt at the surface and formation of a Pt skin layer, protecting the underlying PtFe alloy from corrosion."
          [5] "The present result will shed new insight for electrode material study in fuel cells. Further studies on the Pt skin layer formed on the PtFe alloy electrode, such as the adsorption and oxidation of CO, are now in progress by using STM from the viewpoint of electrocatalysis."



[1] "Platinum has become the most popular cathode electrocatalyst in polymer electrode membrane (PEM) fuel cells. However, its relatively sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) significantly limits the catalytic efficiency."
          [2] "In recent years, Pt-based alloys, composed of Pt and other transition metals, have been extensively investigated (1-7) owing to their enhanced ORR activity."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process."
          [4] "A pure Pt-skin is formed in the outmost layer of the alloys due to surface segregation of Pt atoms."
          [5] "The enhanced stability of Pt-based catalysts is also closely related to surface segregation."
          [6] "Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, (29, 30) whereas Co is usually unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. (16, 17)"
          [7] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface. The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [8] "This leads to the conclusion that Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, consistent with previous studies. (26, 28-30)"
          [9] "For the PtCo alloy, the conversion from 2 to 1 has an energy barrier of 0.63 eV, much lower than that of the competitive step from 3 to 4 (1.15 eV), suggesting the surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer compared to the Pt atoms."
          [10] "Accordingly, structure 4 most likely will not be formed, and thus the continuous segregation of Co cannot be reached."
          [11] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."
          [12] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process. For example, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloys and on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces and the reaction rate is four times that of the pure Pt catalyst."
          [13] "Owing to the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys, numerous studies have been carried out using modern experimental and computational techniques."
          [14] "For many Pt alloy systems, segregation trends have been unambiguously identified, and the components of surface and subsurface regions have successfully been characterized."
          [15] "The dissolution of metal atoms results in some defects on the alloy surface, which are critical to the rearrangement process."
          [16] "The phenomenon can also be observed in acidic solution, often with dissolution of the alloyed metal and rearrangement of Pt atoms."
          [17] "The segregation process thus includes interlayer migration of the impurity atom, vacancy movement at the second layer, and vacancy regeneration at the surface layer."
          [18] "Our segregation model can successfully interpret these phenomena, particularly, from a kinetics viewpoint."
          [19] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface."
          [20] "The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [21] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."





[1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "Since the catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "In this paper, we chose the well-investigated Pt3M(1 1 1) (M = Ag, Au, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ir, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pd, Re, Rh, Ru, Ti, V) alloy systems."
          [11] "Our calculations show that surface segregation is determined not only by atomic size and magnitude of the surface energy but also by the subsurface atomic structure."
          [12] "Notably, we have found that a correlation between the Pt surface segregation trend and the displacement of the metal M out of the alloy surface. Such displacement can effectively predict surface segregation regardless of the subsurface segregation structures."
          [13] "The interlayer distance is also found to be correlated with the segregation energy."
          [14] "Furthermore, this study reveals that the surface geometry is not responsible for the enhanced ORR activity of the Pt-skin surfaces for Pt3Ni(1 1 1) and Pt3Co(1 1 1); instead the modified electronic structure should plays a key role for the catalytic reactions."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The enhanced activities can be attributed to two critical factors: the surface electronic structure and the surface bond length of alloy systems."
          [10] "The surface geometry has been argued to be able to considerably alter the catalytic efficiency."
          [11] "For each non-segregated alloy, the surface metal bond length varies narrowly (up to 0.12 Å)."
          [12] "The surface geometry for the Pt-segregated structures is found to be close to the non-segregated geometry, although the M atoms are all replaced by Pt atoms."
          [13] "For the well-studied Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the maximum deviation of the surface bond length is only 0.002 Å after Pt segregation."
          [14] "Therefore, the geometric effect does not contribute to the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces; instead the electronic structures modified through surface segregation should be the main factor for such enhancement."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "Surface segregation is also governed by temperature and by the presence of adsorbates."



Ternary alloys exhibit a strong Pt surface segregation tendency leading to the formation of a Pt monolayer (ML) on their surfaces. The presence of such top Pt ML induces relatively weaker binding strengths of O and OH in the ternary alloys, suggesting further activity enhancement for the ORR compared to the corresponding bimetallic alloy surfaces. Moreover, the Pt-skin surfaces of and show an enhanced electrochemical stability with respect to the dissolution of Pt atoms from the alloy surface.

[1] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [2] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [3] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [4] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [5] "We find that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface)."
          [6] "In the upper right and lower left quadrants, the parity line divides segregating from non-segregating regions."
          [7] "We have confirmed that this simple technique reliably predicts segregation behaviour in the presence of hydrogen, although there may be exceptions in cases where Eseg and BEHsol  BEHhost are within 0.1 eV of one another."
          [8] "In general, Fig. 1 suggests that hydrogen will not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs, at least at low temperatures and pressures."
          [9] "The range of BEs of oxygen, sulphur and CO across the pure transition metals is larger than is the corresponding range for hydrogen (the range of BE between Au and Ru, for example, is 0.75 eV for H, 1.87 eV for CO, 2.25 eV for S and 2.70 eV for O), so these species will generally have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [10] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [11] "In some cases, a portion of the solute in a subsurface alloy may segregate more deeply into the host."
          [12] "In other cases, the total coverage of solute in the surface region may differ from one monolayer, leading to different types of subsurface alloy structures26."
          [13] "In still other situations, arrangements of atoms with unusual periodicity (or even no periodicity at all) may permit the formation of defects or long-range reconstructions27,28."
          [14] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below."
          [15] "However, the deviations from the idealized cases do have a quantitative effect on the properties of adsorbates on these NSAs."
          [16] "Thus, to benefit fully from the unique catalytic properties of NSAs, more precise control of metal catalyst surface structure will be needed, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques."
          [17] "Recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and in nanoparticle fabrication technologies for metals suggest that practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off29,30,31."
          [18] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [19] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [20] "To develop new NSAs for such processes, we use periodic, self-consistent density functional theory calculations that have shown considerable predictive power for catalysis20."
          [21] "We find, however, that selected NSAs offer an exciting exception to this rule by simultaneously allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers."
          [22] "The lowering of the transition-state energy is observed even on non-ideal NSAs although the effect is less pronounced."
          [23] "Accordingly, NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures."
          [24] "This new class of near-surface alloys could thus assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds, and could, potentially, permit easier separation and storage of hydrogen."
          [25] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [26] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [27] "We have found that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface; see Fig. 1)."
          [28] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [29] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below (some experimental studies have already shown significantly modified catalytic activity, along the lines of our theoretical predictions, even on non-ideal NSAs10,11)."



[1] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,34, and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [2] "By contrast, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms the Pt removal is facilitated, because the surface vacancy can be more strongly stabilized by O atoms compared to the initial perfect surface."
          [3] "This can be understood as follows. Firstly, the Pt atoms at the surface vacancy are less coordinated and possess more active d-states, which can more strongly bond with O atoms, compared to terrace Pt atoms."
          [4] "Secondly, with the exposure of the second layer atoms at the surface vacancy, it is possible to form a much stronger OM bond compared to the OPt bond."
          [5] "This is indeed observed in our search for the optimum structure after a Pt removal, which shows that the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by O atoms that sink to bond with the solute M atoms at the second layer."
          [6] "For example, in Pt2Ti skin alloys, the surface vacancies with a configuration containing OTi bonding are much more stable (by 1.44 eV) than those with only OPt bonding."
          [7] "This is consistent with the fact that the atomic O on metals is anion-like, with a strong tendency to accept electrons, and prefers to form ionic-bonds."
          [8] "By analyzing a large set of Pt alloys, we show that alloys are in general less stable than Pt at the same O coverage under electrochemical conditions, and that maintaining a zero O coverage at the working potentials (e.g. 0.9 V) is key to achieve both high activity and stability."
          [9] "From more than 20 different Pt2M alloys, we identify Mo as a good element, which can alloy with Pt to make a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials."
          [10] "We further show that Pt2Mo possesses a lower kinetic barrier for OR compared to Pt, and the barrier towards OOH dissociation is a key kinetic parameter for OR activity."
          [11] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,33,34 and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [12] "The results imply that the stability of even skin alloys under electrochemical conditions could be a severe problem for the long-term operation of cathodes, without even mentioning the activity."
          [13] "Theoretically, the thermodynamic equilibrium O coverage under electrochemical potentials can be determined by constructing the surface phase diagram."
          [14] "It reveals that up to the high potential 1.05 V, only Pt2Mo exhibits a higher stability than pure Pt."
          [15] "The ORR on a Pt2Mo alloy surface follows a similar reaction profile as that on Pt, as shown in Fig. 3."
          [16] "We can see that the O/OH (ΔG1 + ΔG3 in Fig. 3) and molecular O2 (ΔG1) bind more strongly on the O-covered Pt surface, while the free energy of the OOH state (ΔG1 + ΔG2) and the TS for OOH dissociation (ΔG + ΔG1) are similar for Pt2Mo and Pt."
          [17] "The overall barrier ΔG is about 0.2 eV lower on Pt2Mo than that on Pt, due to the reduced O2adsorption on the skin alloy surface."
          [18] "The aqueous environment, together with the in situ O coverage, plays an important role in facilitating the ORR on alloy surfaces."
          [19] "The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloy is 30%."
          [20] "Therefore, we can conclude that the Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity."
          [21] "A low Mo content (below 30% e.g.Pt5Mo) may achieve a higher stability at high potentials but the activity is not better than Pt at 0.9 V, whilst a high Mo content (above 30%, e.g.PtMo) will start to destabilize the alloy and also reduce the activity."

Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component Klas J. AnderssonFederico Calle-VallejoJan RossmeislIb Chorkendorff* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbate), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
The bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer, (15) alleviating possible CO-poisoning problems.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, (15) the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
The calculations also show weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content in the second layer.
The results with adsorbed CO in Table 1 can explain the θCu > 2/3 ML onset of bulk migration of Cu indicated by our XPS data.
In comparison with the θCu = 2/3 ML case, situations with higher Cu content in the top two layers are significantly less stable, leading to a significant Cu bulk migration driving force.
The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, (17) and this is also approximately where both the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur (see Figure 2).
In forming the SA from the NSA, the interdiffusion mobility allows for Cu migration events to the first layer, and this Cu can then be trapped in the new low-energy SA configuration with CO adsorbed.
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
An important consequence of our results is that they add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.
In view of the earlier indications of increased Pt-group metal bonding to CO when Cu or Ag is present in the first layer with a Pt-group metal, (19-22) our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component
we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure
the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys,
the bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer,
The NSA is unstable at elevated CO pressures and sample temperatures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt SA structure.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
the vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present in the first layer.
the calculated higher stability of the CuPt SA compared with Cu in the bulk with CO adsorption on clean Pt(111) is nearly equal to the free-energy difference (ΔG).
the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K,
the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.

Thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3 d metals in Pt
          DFT calculations of Pt3dPt (111) and Pt3dPt (100)
          Predicted stability of subsurface 3d metal in Pt(111) and Pt(100) in oxygen
          Effect of crystal plane on subsurface stability
          Predicted effect of crystal plane on ORR activity

[1] "Compared with monometallic catalysts, bimetallic catalysts have more surface structural complexity, where the second metalin either the metallic or the oxidized statecan be exposed on the surface,in the near surface region, or embedded in bulk region. It has been demonstrated that the surface structure of the bimetallic catalyst is critical to their catalytic properties."
          [2] "For example, Pt- based bimetallic catalysts consisting of Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals at the subsurface region present super catalytic performances in many reactions compared to the pure Pt surface."
          [3] "The structure of a catalyst surface often changes dynamically during reactions. For example, reversible surface processes such as wettingdewetting and sintering dispersion have been observed in monometallic catalyst sys- tems when the gaseous environment changes between reduc- tive and oxidative conditions."
          [4] "The bimetallic catalysts may show similar dependence of surface structure on the redox po- tential of reaction gases, which offers eventually the opportu- nity to tune the catalytic activity and selectivity."

[1] "One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties."
          [2] "the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface NiPtPt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates."
          [3] "Several other investigations of Pt3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "If Eseg is sufficiently negative, the admetal segregates to the surface to produce the MHH surface monolayer structure. If Eseg is sufficiently positive, the surface layer is the host metal, leading to the formation of the HMH subsurface monolayer structure."
          [5] "the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures."
          [6] "Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals."
          [7] "the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface."
          [8] "An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration."
          [9] "An adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum."
          [10] "The oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for the (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys by Callejas-Tovar and Balbuena."

[1] "Under reductive conditions (vacuum and CO), 3d TM prefers to occupy in the subsurface layer due to its higher surface energy and smaller atomic size."
          [2] "While under the oxidizing conditions, the strong O3d TMs interaction would induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, migrating further in the surface layer to form oxidized 3d TM islands."
          [3] "We find that Pt (1 1 1) with the atomic dispersed 3d TM in surface layers is highly active for CO oxidation via bi-functional mechanism."
          [4] "The interplay between structure and reaction environment as well as effect on the catalytic activity is highlighted."

[1] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [2] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "Under vacuum conditions, the surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [5] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [6] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [7] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [8] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces due to the low surface energy of most oxides."
          [9] "The reversible mass transport processes in response to changes between O2 and H2 contribute to the oscillations in surface structure and composition at PtNi nanoparticle systems."
          [10] "The similar reversible dynamic behaviors have been found in PtCu and PtCo nanoparticle catalysts supported HOPG."
          [11] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [12] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [13] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [14] "The surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [15] "The much larger atomic radius of Pt (1.39 A ) than those of Co (1.25 A ), Ni (1.24 A ), and Cu (1.28 A ) [32] contributes to the surface segregation process."
          [16] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [17] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [18] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [19] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces."
          [20] "The mass transport processes, which are active in the oxidation or reduction reactions, are fully reversible depending on the redox potential of the reaction gases."
          [21] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [22] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [23] "The reversible behavior can be more clearly demonstrated when plotting the ratio of Ni 2p to Pt 4f intensity with the oxidation and reduction experimental cycles."
          [24] "The reversible structure changes in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems are of great significance in many real catalytic processes."

[1] "Fe-Pt catalysts have also been used in the preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO in excess H2, and a high selectivity of approximately 100% for CO oxidation was ob- MA Teng et al. / Chinese Journal of Catalysis, 2010, 31: 2432"
          [2] "The Pt-skin structures also showed high activity for catalyzing the hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [13]."
          [3] "The unique catalytic properties of the Pt-skin surfaces were attributed to the modification of the electronic structure of the surface Pt by the subsurface Fe underneath, which influenced the adsorption and reaction characteristics of the surface species [14,15]."
          [4] "The controlled preparation of the various Fe-Pt surface structures enabled us to derive the rela- tionship between the structure and catalytic properties, which would help the design of high-performance and low-cost catalysts."

[1] "Surface segregation has been drawing much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science, catalysis and surface chemistry."
          [2] "The phenomenon is able to influence many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc."
          [3] "In particular, it has been found out that the catalytic activities of alloys can be significantly altered through surface segregation."
          [4] "Platinum-based alloys have been extensively studied as cathode catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR)."
          [5] "Compared to pure Pt, enhanced ORR activities were observed in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [6] "Remarkably, surface segregation was found closely related to the activity improvement."
          [7] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk alloy of Pt3Co and the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt-segregating on the topmost layer of the annealed surface."
          [8] "The ORR was uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the rate of reaction is four times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The unusual catalytic activity has intrigued many researchers and numerous experimental and computational studies have been carried out for the surface segregation of Pt alloys."
          [10] "For most of them, the endeavors focused on the understanding of the surface and subsurface structures and electronic properties under vacuum conditions."
          [11] "However, catalytic reactions such as the ORR are typically take place under operating environments with various adsorbates."
          [12] "The adsorbates can affect the surface segregation trend and even change the surface composition of the alloys in some cases."
          [13] "As the catalytic properties are primarily determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the surface composition of the alloys, studying the segregation trend of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is thus of great importance."

[1] "The stability of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys and the tendency for surface segregation of Pd and Pt subsurface guest metals in these surface alloys is studied by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and Auger electron spec- troscopy (AES)."
          [2] "Hence, the AES results confirm the findings of the STM mea- surements, with an (almost) complete restoration of the origi- nal surface alloy composition after Ru deposition and subse- quent re-alloying, indicative of (almost) complete segregation of the buried Pd (Pt) to the surface layer, and a slight loss of Pt during the re-alloying step."
          [3] "The slight differences in the stability of the surface alloy may be caused by the lower Pd content (44%) in the surface alloy compared to Pt (70%)."
          [4] "The preference for surface segregation of a metal atom dissolved in a host metal is related to the dif- ference in surface energies of the two species and the differ- ence of the two optimal nearest-neighbor distances of host and guest metal."
          [5] "The surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1) and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1),[6669] in good agreement with the ob- served tendency for segregation of Pt and Pd."
          [6] "Also the size mismatch of the larger guest metals Pt (0.277 nm) and Pd (0.275 nm) compared to the Ru(0001) single crystal (0.270 nm) would favor the inclusion of the impurity metals in the tensile stressed outermost Ru layer, providing additional driving force for surface segregation."
          [7] "The floating behavior was studied in detail by following the variation in the surface morphology and structure during a series of four preparation steps: 1) deposition of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001), 2) surface alloy formation by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s), 3) deposition of Ru on the sur- face alloy at 500 K, and 4) re-alloying by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s)."
          [8] "Based on these data, considering only exchange between the surface layer and the subsurface region consisting of the second (bulk dissolution inhibited) and using the annealing temperatures of 1350 K and 1150 K, respectively, the probability that a small amount of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001) is dissolved in the subsurface region (buried by a layer of substrate material) during surface alloy formation can be estimated by a simple Boltzmann ap- proach given by Equation (1):pbury  exp  DEseg kBT"
          [9] "The ob- servation of a distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on the Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) surface alloy at 500 K, in contrast to the layer-by-layer Ru growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) under similar growth conditions, may be attributed to the lower Pd content,the different 2D distribution of the components in the latter surface alloy with more Ru3 surface sites as compared to Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001), or to a less pronounced difference be- tween RuRu bonding and RuPd bonding."

[1] "Density functional theory is used to study oxygen adsorption and its effect on surface segregation in (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys."
          [2] "It is found that the most energetically favorable oxygen adsorption site is the bridge site over and parallel to the (100) step."
          [3] "Surface segregation phenomena is observed in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir and Pt/Co(core) systems."
          [4] "The Pt/Ir(core) structure was the only one, among the studied systems, that showed antisegregation behavior even in presence of oxygen adsorbed."
          [5] "For alloys, it has been reported that catalytic activity depends dramatically on how the atoms arrange in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface [912] and it is influenced by the surface segregation phenomenon."
          [6] "Therefore, it is important to characterize the surface atomic distribution of catalytic alloys and to elucidate the effect of segregation on surface structure."

[1] "The lower surface free energy of Au compared to Pt (1.13 (44, 45) vs 2.48 (46) J/m2) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when Au is deposited on top of Pt. The fact that Au and Pt are immiscible at Au compositions greater than 17% (47) also suggests that Au should remain on top of the Pt clusters."
          [2] "The adsorption of CO on the PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes the diffusion of Pt to the surface of the clusters, and this phenomena is most pronounced for the clusters that are initially pure Au at the surface."
          [3] "Density functional theory calculations demonstrate that it is thermodynamically favorable for Pt to diffuse to the cluster surface in order to bind to CO."
          [4] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites. Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [5] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [6] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites."
          [7] "Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [8] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are initially pure Au; this is presumably because the first step in the oxidation process is O2 dissociation, which requires neighboring Pt sites."

[1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
          [2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
          [3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
          [4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
          [5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
          [7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
          [8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
          [10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."
          [11] "Furthermore, similar to the use of the individual d-band center values for the prediction of binding energies, the difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in the environment of vacuum, hydrogen and oxygen."
          [12] "In order to further correlate DFT calculations with experimental results, a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship is derived to correlate thermodynamic stability from DFT calculations with kinetic barriers from experimental measurements for the Pt3dPt systems."
          [13] "Finally, empirical equations have been developed for predicting the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems both in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [14] "The large difference in the binding energies between the surface and subsurface structures demonstrates the need to understand the stability of these configurations in the reacting environment."
          [15] "As shown for the Pt3d bimetallic systems, the difference in the oxygen binding energy of oxygen for these two configurations is on the order of hundreds of kcal/mol."
          [16] "Based on Sabatiers principle, this would suggest that if a subsurface alloy structure exhibited the optimal binding properties (as for dehydrogenation and ORR), the surface structure would likely lead to intermediates bound too strongly and halt the reaction."
          [17] "Conversely, if the surface alloy structure were found to exhibit the optimal binding properties (as for steam reforming), the subsurface structure would be predicted to bind adsorbates too weakly and prevent the reaction from proceeding."
          [18] "The stability of the bimetallic structures has been considered with a number of atomic species, which can be extended to more complex adsorbates using scaling relationships."
          [19] "The DFT results in Fig. 2 predict that the subsurface PtMPt(111) configuration is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while the surface MPtPt(111) configuration is predicted to be preferred with 0.5 ML O."
          [20] "The DFT results predict that the surface 3dPtPt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen."
          [21] "Parallel with the predictions from DFT, experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [22] "The AES results suggest that there are two regions of segregation."
          [23] "The similar segregation behavior in Figs. 7 and 8 reveals that DFT predictions and experimental measurements on single crystal bimetallic surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrate, bridging the materials gap."
          [24] "The results from this prediction are shown in Fig. 9, where the left axis is the heat of reaction and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation for each Pt3dPt subsurface structure."
          [25] "Comparing these bimetallic systems, all the Pt3dPt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [26] "The linear trends in Fig. 10 for all the systems show that the correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can be used beyond the Pt3d alloys."
          [27] "The main modification of switching the admetal/host component is to shift the absolute driving potential of the segregation."
          [28] "This general stability trend predicts that all the bimetallic systems in Fig. 10 have the same thermodynamically preferred bimetallic configuration in each environment, with the subsurface configuration being preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and the surface configuration being favored with 0.5 ML O."



[1] "The formation of a Pt skin layer with predominantly (111)-oriented facets induced by dissolution of Fe atoms in a PtFe alloy for fuel cell applications is investigated for the first time by using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [2] "While electrochemical and other surface analysis techniques such as XPS, AES and EXAFS have been extensively used in the study of thin solid films, the information obtained from these methods is esssentially macroscopic and does not provide direct atomic-scale models for the film structures."
          [3] "In this paper, we report an in situ STM study of a PtFe film in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [4] "The small peak at 0.71 V indicated by an arrow is assigned to the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process.13 However, the peak decreased with each additional potential cycle and finally disappeared, resulting in a steady CV. This result shows that the potential cycles lead to increased dissolution of Fe and the rearrangement of Pt at the surface and formation of a Pt skin layer, protecting the underlying PtFe alloy from corrosion."
          [5] "The present result will shed new insight for electrode material study in fuel cells. Further studies on the Pt skin layer formed on the PtFe alloy electrode, such as the adsorption and oxidation of CO, are now in progress by using STM from the viewpoint of electrocatalysis."



[1] "Platinum has become the most popular cathode electrocatalyst in polymer electrode membrane (PEM) fuel cells. However, its relatively sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) significantly limits the catalytic efficiency."
          [2] "In recent years, Pt-based alloys, composed of Pt and other transition metals, have been extensively investigated (1-7) owing to their enhanced ORR activity."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process."
          [4] "A pure Pt-skin is formed in the outmost layer of the alloys due to surface segregation of Pt atoms."
          [5] "The enhanced stability of Pt-based catalysts is also closely related to surface segregation."
          [6] "Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, (29, 30) whereas Co is usually unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. (16, 17)"
          [7] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface. The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [8] "This leads to the conclusion that Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, consistent with previous studies. (26, 28-30)"
          [9] "For the PtCo alloy, the conversion from 2 to 1 has an energy barrier of 0.63 eV, much lower than that of the competitive step from 3 to 4 (1.15 eV), suggesting the surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer compared to the Pt atoms."
          [10] "Accordingly, structure 4 most likely will not be formed, and thus the continuous segregation of Co cannot be reached."
          [11] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."
          [12] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process. For example, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloys and on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces and the reaction rate is four times that of the pure Pt catalyst."
          [13] "Owing to the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys, numerous studies have been carried out using modern experimental and computational techniques."
          [14] "For many Pt alloy systems, segregation trends have been unambiguously identified, and the components of surface and subsurface regions have successfully been characterized."
          [15] "The dissolution of metal atoms results in some defects on the alloy surface, which are critical to the rearrangement process."
          [16] "The phenomenon can also be observed in acidic solution, often with dissolution of the alloyed metal and rearrangement of Pt atoms."
          [17] "The segregation process thus includes interlayer migration of the impurity atom, vacancy movement at the second layer, and vacancy regeneration at the surface layer."
          [18] "Our segregation model can successfully interpret these phenomena, particularly, from a kinetics viewpoint."
          [19] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface."
          [20] "The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [21] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."





[1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "Since the catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "In this paper, we chose the well-investigated Pt3M(1 1 1) (M = Ag, Au, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ir, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pd, Re, Rh, Ru, Ti, V) alloy systems."
          [11] "Our calculations show that surface segregation is determined not only by atomic size and magnitude of the surface energy but also by the subsurface atomic structure."
          [12] "Notably, we have found that a correlation between the Pt surface segregation trend and the displacement of the metal M out of the alloy surface. Such displacement can effectively predict surface segregation regardless of the subsurface segregation structures."
          [13] "The interlayer distance is also found to be correlated with the segregation energy."
          [14] "Furthermore, this study reveals that the surface geometry is not responsible for the enhanced ORR activity of the Pt-skin surfaces for Pt3Ni(1 1 1) and Pt3Co(1 1 1); instead the modified electronic structure should plays a key role for the catalytic reactions."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The enhanced activities can be attributed to two critical factors: the surface electronic structure and the surface bond length of alloy systems."
          [10] "The surface geometry has been argued to be able to considerably alter the catalytic efficiency."
          [11] "For each non-segregated alloy, the surface metal bond length varies narrowly (up to 0.12 Å)."
          [12] "The surface geometry for the Pt-segregated structures is found to be close to the non-segregated geometry, although the M atoms are all replaced by Pt atoms."
          [13] "For the well-studied Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the maximum deviation of the surface bond length is only 0.002 Å after Pt segregation."
          [14] "Therefore, the geometric effect does not contribute to the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces; instead the electronic structures modified through surface segregation should be the main factor for such enhancement."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "Surface segregation is also governed by temperature and by the presence of adsorbates."



Ternary alloys exhibit a strong Pt surface segregation tendency leading to the formation of a Pt monolayer (ML) on their surfaces. The presence of such top Pt ML induces relatively weaker binding strengths of O and OH in the ternary alloys, suggesting further activity enhancement for the ORR compared to the corresponding bimetallic alloy surfaces. Moreover, the Pt-skin surfaces of and show an enhanced electrochemical stability with respect to the dissolution of Pt atoms from the alloy surface.

[1] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [2] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [3] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [4] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [5] "We find that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface)."
          [6] "In the upper right and lower left quadrants, the parity line divides segregating from non-segregating regions."
          [7] "We have confirmed that this simple technique reliably predicts segregation behaviour in the presence of hydrogen, although there may be exceptions in cases where Eseg and BEHsol  BEHhost are within 0.1 eV of one another."
          [8] "In general, Fig. 1 suggests that hydrogen will not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs, at least at low temperatures and pressures."
          [9] "The range of BEs of oxygen, sulphur and CO across the pure transition metals is larger than is the corresponding range for hydrogen (the range of BE between Au and Ru, for example, is 0.75 eV for H, 1.87 eV for CO, 2.25 eV for S and 2.70 eV for O), so these species will generally have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [10] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [11] "In some cases, a portion of the solute in a subsurface alloy may segregate more deeply into the host."
          [12] "In other cases, the total coverage of solute in the surface region may differ from one monolayer, leading to different types of subsurface alloy structures26."
          [13] "In still other situations, arrangements of atoms with unusual periodicity (or even no periodicity at all) may permit the formation of defects or long-range reconstructions27,28."
          [14] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below."
          [15] "However, the deviations from the idealized cases do have a quantitative effect on the properties of adsorbates on these NSAs."
          [16] "Thus, to benefit fully from the unique catalytic properties of NSAs, more precise control of metal catalyst surface structure will be needed, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques."
          [17] "Recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and in nanoparticle fabrication technologies for metals suggest that practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off29,30,31."
          [18] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [19] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [20] "To develop new NSAs for such processes, we use periodic, self-consistent density functional theory calculations that have shown considerable predictive power for catalysis20."
          [21] "We find, however, that selected NSAs offer an exciting exception to this rule by simultaneously allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers."
          [22] "The lowering of the transition-state energy is observed even on non-ideal NSAs although the effect is less pronounced."
          [23] "Accordingly, NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures."
          [24] "This new class of near-surface alloys could thus assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds, and could, potentially, permit easier separation and storage of hydrogen."
          [25] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [26] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [27] "We have found that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface; see Fig. 1)."
          [28] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [29] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below (some experimental studies have already shown significantly modified catalytic activity, along the lines of our theoretical predictions, even on non-ideal NSAs10,11)."



[1] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,34, and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [2] "By contrast, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms the Pt removal is facilitated, because the surface vacancy can be more strongly stabilized by O atoms compared to the initial perfect surface."
          [3] "This can be understood as follows. Firstly, the Pt atoms at the surface vacancy are less coordinated and possess more active d-states, which can more strongly bond with O atoms, compared to terrace Pt atoms."
          [4] "Secondly, with the exposure of the second layer atoms at the surface vacancy, it is possible to form a much stronger OM bond compared to the OPt bond."
          [5] "This is indeed observed in our search for the optimum structure after a Pt removal, which shows that the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by O atoms that sink to bond with the solute M atoms at the second layer."
          [6] "For example, in Pt2Ti skin alloys, the surface vacancies with a configuration containing OTi bonding are much more stable (by 1.44 eV) than those with only OPt bonding."
          [7] "This is consistent with the fact that the atomic O on metals is anion-like, with a strong tendency to accept electrons, and prefers to form ionic-bonds."
          [8] "By analyzing a large set of Pt alloys, we show that alloys are in general less stable than Pt at the same O coverage under electrochemical conditions, and that maintaining a zero O coverage at the working potentials (e.g. 0.9 V) is key to achieve both high activity and stability."
          [9] "From more than 20 different Pt2M alloys, we identify Mo as a good element, which can alloy with Pt to make a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials."
          [10] "We further show that Pt2Mo possesses a lower kinetic barrier for OR compared to Pt, and the barrier towards OOH dissociation is a key kinetic parameter for OR activity."
          [11] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,33,34 and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [12] "The results imply that the stability of even skin alloys under electrochemical conditions could be a severe problem for the long-term operation of cathodes, without even mentioning the activity."
          [13] "Theoretically, the thermodynamic equilibrium O coverage under electrochemical potentials can be determined by constructing the surface phase diagram."
          [14] "It reveals that up to the high potential 1.05 V, only Pt2Mo exhibits a higher stability than pure Pt."
          [15] "The ORR on a Pt2Mo alloy surface follows a similar reaction profile as that on Pt, as shown in Fig. 3."
          [16] "We can see that the O/OH (ΔG1 + ΔG3 in Fig. 3) and molecular O2 (ΔG1) bind more strongly on the O-covered Pt surface, while the free energy of the OOH state (ΔG1 + ΔG2) and the TS for OOH dissociation (ΔG + ΔG1) are similar for Pt2Mo and Pt."
          [17] "The overall barrier ΔG is about 0.2 eV lower on Pt2Mo than that on Pt, due to the reduced O2adsorption on the skin alloy surface."
          [18] "The aqueous environment, together with the in situ O coverage, plays an important role in facilitating the ORR on alloy surfaces."
          [19] "The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloy is 30%."
          [20] "Therefore, we can conclude that the Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity."
          [21] "A low Mo content (below 30% e.g.Pt5Mo) may achieve a higher stability at high potentials but the activity is not better than Pt at 0.9 V, whilst a high Mo content (above 30%, e.g.PtMo) will start to destabilize the alloy and also reduce the activity."

Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component Klas J. AnderssonFederico Calle-VallejoJan RossmeislIb Chorkendorff* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbate), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
The bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer, (15) alleviating possible CO-poisoning problems.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, (15) the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
The calculations also show weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content in the second layer.
The results with adsorbed CO in Table 1 can explain the θCu > 2/3 ML onset of bulk migration of Cu indicated by our XPS data.
In comparison with the θCu = 2/3 ML case, situations with higher Cu content in the top two layers are significantly less stable, leading to a significant Cu bulk migration driving force.
The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, (17) and this is also approximately where both the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur (see Figure 2).
In forming the SA from the NSA, the interdiffusion mobility allows for Cu migration events to the first layer, and this Cu can then be trapped in the new low-energy SA configuration with CO adsorbed.
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
An important consequence of our results is that they add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.
In view of the earlier indications of increased Pt-group metal bonding to CO when Cu or Ag is present in the first layer with a Pt-group metal, (19-22) our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component
we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure
the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys,
the bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer,
The NSA is unstable at elevated CO pressures and sample temperatures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt SA structure.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
the vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present in the first layer.
the calculated higher stability of the CuPt SA compared with Cu in the bulk with CO adsorption on clean Pt(111) is nearly equal to the free-energy difference (ΔG).
the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K,
the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.

Thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3 d metals in Pt
          DFT calculations of Pt3dPt (111) and Pt3dPt (100)
          Predicted stability of subsurface 3d metal in Pt(111) and Pt(100) in oxygen
          Effect of crystal plane on subsurface stability
          Predicted effect of crystal plane on ORR activity

[1] "Compared with monometallic catalysts, bimetallic catalysts have more surface structural complexity, where the second metalin either the metallic or the oxidized statecan be exposed on the surface,in the near surface region, or embedded in bulk region. It has been demonstrated that the surface structure of the bimetallic catalyst is critical to their catalytic properties."
          [2] "For example, Pt- based bimetallic catalysts consisting of Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals at the subsurface region present super catalytic performances in many reactions compared to the pure Pt surface."
          [3] "The structure of a catalyst surface often changes dynamically during reactions. For example, reversible surface processes such as wettingdewetting and sintering dispersion have been observed in monometallic catalyst sys- tems when the gaseous environment changes between reduc- tive and oxidative conditions."
          [4] "The bimetallic catalysts may show similar dependence of surface structure on the redox po- tential of reaction gases, which offers eventually the opportu- nity to tune the catalytic activity and selectivity."

[1] "One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties."
          [2] "the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface NiPtPt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates."
          [3] "Several other investigations of Pt3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "If Eseg is sufficiently negative, the admetal segregates to the surface to produce the MHH surface monolayer structure. If Eseg is sufficiently positive, the surface layer is the host metal, leading to the formation of the HMH subsurface monolayer structure."
          [5] "the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures."
          [6] "Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals."
          [7] "the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface."
          [8] "An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration."
          [9] "An adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum."
          [10] "The oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for the (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys by Callejas-Tovar and Balbuena."

[1] "Under reductive conditions (vacuum and CO), 3d TM prefers to occupy in the subsurface layer due to its higher surface energy and smaller atomic size."
          [2] "While under the oxidizing conditions, the strong O3d TMs interaction would induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, migrating further in the surface layer to form oxidized 3d TM islands."
          [3] "We find that Pt (1 1 1) with the atomic dispersed 3d TM in surface layers is highly active for CO oxidation via bi-functional mechanism."
          [4] "The interplay between structure and reaction environment as well as effect on the catalytic activity is highlighted."

[1] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [2] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "Under vacuum conditions, the surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [5] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [6] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [7] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [8] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces due to the low surface energy of most oxides."
          [9] "The reversible mass transport processes in response to changes between O2 and H2 contribute to the oscillations in surface structure and composition at PtNi nanoparticle systems."
          [10] "The similar reversible dynamic behaviors have been found in PtCu and PtCo nanoparticle catalysts supported HOPG."
          [11] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [12] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [13] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [14] "The surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [15] "The much larger atomic radius of Pt (1.39 A ) than those of Co (1.25 A ), Ni (1.24 A ), and Cu (1.28 A ) [32] contributes to the surface segregation process."
          [16] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [17] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [18] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [19] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces."
          [20] "The mass transport processes, which are active in the oxidation or reduction reactions, are fully reversible depending on the redox potential of the reaction gases."
          [21] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [22] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [23] "The reversible behavior can be more clearly demonstrated when plotting the ratio of Ni 2p to Pt 4f intensity with the oxidation and reduction experimental cycles."
          [24] "The reversible structure changes in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems are of great significance in many real catalytic processes."

[1] "Fe-Pt catalysts have also been used in the preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO in excess H2, and a high selectivity of approximately 100% for CO oxidation was ob- MA Teng et al. / Chinese Journal of Catalysis, 2010, 31: 2432"
          [2] "The Pt-skin structures also showed high activity for catalyzing the hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [13]."
          [3] "The unique catalytic properties of the Pt-skin surfaces were attributed to the modification of the electronic structure of the surface Pt by the subsurface Fe underneath, which influenced the adsorption and reaction characteristics of the surface species [14,15]."
          [4] "The controlled preparation of the various Fe-Pt surface structures enabled us to derive the rela- tionship between the structure and catalytic properties, which would help the design of high-performance and low-cost catalysts."

[1] "Surface segregation has been drawing much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science, catalysis and surface chemistry."
          [2] "The phenomenon is able to influence many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc."
          [3] "In particular, it has been found out that the catalytic activities of alloys can be significantly altered through surface segregation."
          [4] "Platinum-based alloys have been extensively studied as cathode catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR)."
          [5] "Compared to pure Pt, enhanced ORR activities were observed in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [6] "Remarkably, surface segregation was found closely related to the activity improvement."
          [7] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk alloy of Pt3Co and the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt-segregating on the topmost layer of the annealed surface."
          [8] "The ORR was uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the rate of reaction is four times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The unusual catalytic activity has intrigued many researchers and numerous experimental and computational studies have been carried out for the surface segregation of Pt alloys."
          [10] "For most of them, the endeavors focused on the understanding of the surface and subsurface structures and electronic properties under vacuum conditions."
          [11] "However, catalytic reactions such as the ORR are typically take place under operating environments with various adsorbates."
          [12] "The adsorbates can affect the surface segregation trend and even change the surface composition of the alloys in some cases."
          [13] "As the catalytic properties are primarily determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the surface composition of the alloys, studying the segregation trend of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is thus of great importance."

[1] "The stability of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys and the tendency for surface segregation of Pd and Pt subsurface guest metals in these surface alloys is studied by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and Auger electron spec- troscopy (AES)."
          [2] "Hence, the AES results confirm the findings of the STM mea- surements, with an (almost) complete restoration of the origi- nal surface alloy composition after Ru deposition and subse- quent re-alloying, indicative of (almost) complete segregation of the buried Pd (Pt) to the surface layer, and a slight loss of Pt during the re-alloying step."
          [3] "The slight differences in the stability of the surface alloy may be caused by the lower Pd content (44%) in the surface alloy compared to Pt (70%)."
          [4] "The preference for surface segregation of a metal atom dissolved in a host metal is related to the dif- ference in surface energies of the two species and the differ- ence of the two optimal nearest-neighbor distances of host and guest metal."
          [5] "The surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1) and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1),[6669] in good agreement with the ob- served tendency for segregation of Pt and Pd."
          [6] "Also the size mismatch of the larger guest metals Pt (0.277 nm) and Pd (0.275 nm) compared to the Ru(0001) single crystal (0.270 nm) would favor the inclusion of the impurity metals in the tensile stressed outermost Ru layer, providing additional driving force for surface segregation."
          [7] "The floating behavior was studied in detail by following the variation in the surface morphology and structure during a series of four preparation steps: 1) deposition of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001), 2) surface alloy formation by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s), 3) deposition of Ru on the sur- face alloy at 500 K, and 4) re-alloying by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s)."
          [8] "Based on these data, considering only exchange between the surface layer and the subsurface region consisting of the second (bulk dissolution inhibited) and using the annealing temperatures of 1350 K and 1150 K, respectively, the probability that a small amount of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001) is dissolved in the subsurface region (buried by a layer of substrate material) during surface alloy formation can be estimated by a simple Boltzmann ap- proach given by Equation (1):pbury  exp  DEseg kBT"
          [9] "The ob- servation of a distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on the Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) surface alloy at 500 K, in contrast to the layer-by-layer Ru growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) under similar growth conditions, may be attributed to the lower Pd content,the different 2D distribution of the components in the latter surface alloy with more Ru3 surface sites as compared to Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001), or to a less pronounced difference be- tween RuRu bonding and RuPd bonding."

[1] "Density functional theory is used to study oxygen adsorption and its effect on surface segregation in (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys."
          [2] "It is found that the most energetically favorable oxygen adsorption site is the bridge site over and parallel to the (100) step."
          [3] "Surface segregation phenomena is observed in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir and Pt/Co(core) systems."
          [4] "The Pt/Ir(core) structure was the only one, among the studied systems, that showed antisegregation behavior even in presence of oxygen adsorbed."
          [5] "For alloys, it has been reported that catalytic activity depends dramatically on how the atoms arrange in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface [912] and it is influenced by the surface segregation phenomenon."
          [6] "Therefore, it is important to characterize the surface atomic distribution of catalytic alloys and to elucidate the effect of segregation on surface structure."

[1] "The lower surface free energy of Au compared to Pt (1.13 (44, 45) vs 2.48 (46) J/m2) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when Au is deposited on top of Pt. The fact that Au and Pt are immiscible at Au compositions greater than 17% (47) also suggests that Au should remain on top of the Pt clusters."
          [2] "The adsorption of CO on the PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes the diffusion of Pt to the surface of the clusters, and this phenomena is most pronounced for the clusters that are initially pure Au at the surface."
          [3] "Density functional theory calculations demonstrate that it is thermodynamically favorable for Pt to diffuse to the cluster surface in order to bind to CO."
          [4] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites. Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [5] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [6] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites."
          [7] "Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [8] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are initially pure Au; this is presumably because the first step in the oxidation process is O2 dissociation, which requires neighboring Pt sites."

[1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
          [2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
          [3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
          [4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
          [5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
          [7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
          [8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
          [10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."
          [11] "Furthermore, similar to the use of the individual d-band center values for the prediction of binding energies, the difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in the environment of vacuum, hydrogen and oxygen."
          [12] "In order to further correlate DFT calculations with experimental results, a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship is derived to correlate thermodynamic stability from DFT calculations with kinetic barriers from experimental measurements for the Pt3dPt systems."
          [13] "Finally, empirical equations have been developed for predicting the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems both in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [14] "The large difference in the binding energies between the surface and subsurface structures demonstrates the need to understand the stability of these configurations in the reacting environment."
          [15] "As shown for the Pt3d bimetallic systems, the difference in the oxygen binding energy of oxygen for these two configurations is on the order of hundreds of kcal/mol."
          [16] "Based on Sabatiers principle, this would suggest that if a subsurface alloy structure exhibited the optimal binding properties (as for dehydrogenation and ORR), the surface structure would likely lead to intermediates bound too strongly and halt the reaction."
          [17] "Conversely, if the surface alloy structure were found to exhibit the optimal binding properties (as for steam reforming), the subsurface structure would be predicted to bind adsorbates too weakly and prevent the reaction from proceeding."
          [18] "The stability of the bimetallic structures has been considered with a number of atomic species, which can be extended to more complex adsorbates using scaling relationships."
          [19] "The DFT results in Fig. 2 predict that the subsurface PtMPt(111) configuration is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while the surface MPtPt(111) configuration is predicted to be preferred with 0.5 ML O."
          [20] "The DFT results predict that the surface 3dPtPt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen."
          [21] "Parallel with the predictions from DFT, experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [22] "The AES results suggest that there are two regions of segregation."
          [23] "The similar segregation behavior in Figs. 7 and 8 reveals that DFT predictions and experimental measurements on single crystal bimetallic surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrate, bridging the materials gap."
          [24] "The results from this prediction are shown in Fig. 9, where the left axis is the heat of reaction and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation for each Pt3dPt subsurface structure."
          [25] "Comparing these bimetallic systems, all the Pt3dPt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [26] "The linear trends in Fig. 10 for all the systems show that the correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can be used beyond the Pt3d alloys."
          [27] "The main modification of switching the admetal/host component is to shift the absolute driving potential of the segregation."
          [28] "This general stability trend predicts that all the bimetallic systems in Fig. 10 have the same thermodynamically preferred bimetallic configuration in each environment, with the subsurface configuration being preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and the surface configuration being favored with 0.5 ML O."



[1] "The formation of a Pt skin layer with predominantly (111)-oriented facets induced by dissolution of Fe atoms in a PtFe alloy for fuel cell applications is investigated for the first time by using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [2] "While electrochemical and other surface analysis techniques such as XPS, AES and EXAFS have been extensively used in the study of thin solid films, the information obtained from these methods is esssentially macroscopic and does not provide direct atomic-scale models for the film structures."
          [3] "In this paper, we report an in situ STM study of a PtFe film in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [4] "The small peak at 0.71 V indicated by an arrow is assigned to the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process.13 However, the peak decreased with each additional potential cycle and finally disappeared, resulting in a steady CV. This result shows that the potential cycles lead to increased dissolution of Fe and the rearrangement of Pt at the surface and formation of a Pt skin layer, protecting the underlying PtFe alloy from corrosion."
          [5] "The present result will shed new insight for electrode material study in fuel cells. Further studies on the Pt skin layer formed on the PtFe alloy electrode, such as the adsorption and oxidation of CO, are now in progress by using STM from the viewpoint of electrocatalysis."



[1] "Platinum has become the most popular cathode electrocatalyst in polymer electrode membrane (PEM) fuel cells. However, its relatively sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) significantly limits the catalytic efficiency."
          [2] "In recent years, Pt-based alloys, composed of Pt and other transition metals, have been extensively investigated (1-7) owing to their enhanced ORR activity."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process."
          [4] "A pure Pt-skin is formed in the outmost layer of the alloys due to surface segregation of Pt atoms."
          [5] "The enhanced stability of Pt-based catalysts is also closely related to surface segregation."
          [6] "Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, (29, 30) whereas Co is usually unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. (16, 17)"
          [7] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface. The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [8] "This leads to the conclusion that Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, consistent with previous studies. (26, 28-30)"
          [9] "For the PtCo alloy, the conversion from 2 to 1 has an energy barrier of 0.63 eV, much lower than that of the competitive step from 3 to 4 (1.15 eV), suggesting the surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer compared to the Pt atoms."
          [10] "Accordingly, structure 4 most likely will not be formed, and thus the continuous segregation of Co cannot be reached."
          [11] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."
          [12] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process. For example, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloys and on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces and the reaction rate is four times that of the pure Pt catalyst."
          [13] "Owing to the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys, numerous studies have been carried out using modern experimental and computational techniques."
          [14] "For many Pt alloy systems, segregation trends have been unambiguously identified, and the components of surface and subsurface regions have successfully been characterized."
          [15] "The dissolution of metal atoms results in some defects on the alloy surface, which are critical to the rearrangement process."
          [16] "The phenomenon can also be observed in acidic solution, often with dissolution of the alloyed metal and rearrangement of Pt atoms."
          [17] "The segregation process thus includes interlayer migration of the impurity atom, vacancy movement at the second layer, and vacancy regeneration at the surface layer."
          [18] "Our segregation model can successfully interpret these phenomena, particularly, from a kinetics viewpoint."
          [19] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface."
          [20] "The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [21] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."





[1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "Since the catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "In this paper, we chose the well-investigated Pt3M(1 1 1) (M = Ag, Au, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ir, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pd, Re, Rh, Ru, Ti, V) alloy systems."
          [11] "Our calculations show that surface segregation is determined not only by atomic size and magnitude of the surface energy but also by the subsurface atomic structure."
          [12] "Notably, we have found that a correlation between the Pt surface segregation trend and the displacement of the metal M out of the alloy surface. Such displacement can effectively predict surface segregation regardless of the subsurface segregation structures."
          [13] "The interlayer distance is also found to be correlated with the segregation energy."
          [14] "Furthermore, this study reveals that the surface geometry is not responsible for the enhanced ORR activity of the Pt-skin surfaces for Pt3Ni(1 1 1) and Pt3Co(1 1 1); instead the modified electronic structure should plays a key role for the catalytic reactions."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The enhanced activities can be attributed to two critical factors: the surface electronic structure and the surface bond length of alloy systems."
          [10] "The surface geometry has been argued to be able to considerably alter the catalytic efficiency."
          [11] "For each non-segregated alloy, the surface metal bond length varies narrowly (up to 0.12 Å)."
          [12] "The surface geometry for the Pt-segregated structures is found to be close to the non-segregated geometry, although the M atoms are all replaced by Pt atoms."
          [13] "For the well-studied Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the maximum deviation of the surface bond length is only 0.002 Å after Pt segregation."
          [14] "Therefore, the geometric effect does not contribute to the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces; instead the electronic structures modified through surface segregation should be the main factor for such enhancement."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "Surface segregation is also governed by temperature and by the presence of adsorbates."



Ternary alloys exhibit a strong Pt surface segregation tendency leading to the formation of a Pt monolayer (ML) on their surfaces. The presence of such top Pt ML induces relatively weaker binding strengths of O and OH in the ternary alloys, suggesting further activity enhancement for the ORR compared to the corresponding bimetallic alloy surfaces. Moreover, the Pt-skin surfaces of and show an enhanced electrochemical stability with respect to the dissolution of Pt atoms from the alloy surface.

[1] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [2] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [3] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [4] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [5] "We find that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface)."
          [6] "In the upper right and lower left quadrants, the parity line divides segregating from non-segregating regions."
          [7] "We have confirmed that this simple technique reliably predicts segregation behaviour in the presence of hydrogen, although there may be exceptions in cases where Eseg and BEHsol  BEHhost are within 0.1 eV of one another."
          [8] "In general, Fig. 1 suggests that hydrogen will not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs, at least at low temperatures and pressures."
          [9] "The range of BEs of oxygen, sulphur and CO across the pure transition metals is larger than is the corresponding range for hydrogen (the range of BE between Au and Ru, for example, is 0.75 eV for H, 1.87 eV for CO, 2.25 eV for S and 2.70 eV for O), so these species will generally have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [10] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [11] "In some cases, a portion of the solute in a subsurface alloy may segregate more deeply into the host."
          [12] "In other cases, the total coverage of solute in the surface region may differ from one monolayer, leading to different types of subsurface alloy structures26."
          [13] "In still other situations, arrangements of atoms with unusual periodicity (or even no periodicity at all) may permit the formation of defects or long-range reconstructions27,28."
          [14] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below."
          [15] "However, the deviations from the idealized cases do have a quantitative effect on the properties of adsorbates on these NSAs."
          [16] "Thus, to benefit fully from the unique catalytic properties of NSAs, more precise control of metal catalyst surface structure will be needed, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques."
          [17] "Recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and in nanoparticle fabrication technologies for metals suggest that practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off29,30,31."
          [18] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [19] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [20] "To develop new NSAs for such processes, we use periodic, self-consistent density functional theory calculations that have shown considerable predictive power for catalysis20."
          [21] "We find, however, that selected NSAs offer an exciting exception to this rule by simultaneously allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers."
          [22] "The lowering of the transition-state energy is observed even on non-ideal NSAs although the effect is less pronounced."
          [23] "Accordingly, NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures."
          [24] "This new class of near-surface alloys could thus assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds, and could, potentially, permit easier separation and storage of hydrogen."
          [25] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [26] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [27] "We have found that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface; see Fig. 1)."
          [28] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [29] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below (some experimental studies have already shown significantly modified catalytic activity, along the lines of our theoretical predictions, even on non-ideal NSAs10,11)."



[1] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,34, and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [2] "By contrast, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms the Pt removal is facilitated, because the surface vacancy can be more strongly stabilized by O atoms compared to the initial perfect surface."
          [3] "This can be understood as follows. Firstly, the Pt atoms at the surface vacancy are less coordinated and possess more active d-states, which can more strongly bond with O atoms, compared to terrace Pt atoms."
          [4] "Secondly, with the exposure of the second layer atoms at the surface vacancy, it is possible to form a much stronger OM bond compared to the OPt bond."
          [5] "This is indeed observed in our search for the optimum structure after a Pt removal, which shows that the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by O atoms that sink to bond with the solute M atoms at the second layer."
          [6] "For example, in Pt2Ti skin alloys, the surface vacancies with a configuration containing OTi bonding are much more stable (by 1.44 eV) than those with only OPt bonding."
          [7] "This is consistent with the fact that the atomic O on metals is anion-like, with a strong tendency to accept electrons, and prefers to form ionic-bonds."
          [8] "By analyzing a large set of Pt alloys, we show that alloys are in general less stable than Pt at the same O coverage under electrochemical conditions, and that maintaining a zero O coverage at the working potentials (e.g. 0.9 V) is key to achieve both high activity and stability."
          [9] "From more than 20 different Pt2M alloys, we identify Mo as a good element, which can alloy with Pt to make a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials."
          [10] "We further show that Pt2Mo possesses a lower kinetic barrier for OR compared to Pt, and the barrier towards OOH dissociation is a key kinetic parameter for OR activity."
          [11] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,33,34 and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [12] "The results imply that the stability of even skin alloys under electrochemical conditions could be a severe problem for the long-term operation of cathodes, without even mentioning the activity."
          [13] "Theoretically, the thermodynamic equilibrium O coverage under electrochemical potentials can be determined by constructing the surface phase diagram."
          [14] "It reveals that up to the high potential 1.05 V, only Pt2Mo exhibits a higher stability than pure Pt."
          [15] "The ORR on a Pt2Mo alloy surface follows a similar reaction profile as that on Pt, as shown in Fig. 3."
          [16] "We can see that the O/OH (ΔG1 + ΔG3 in Fig. 3) and molecular O2 (ΔG1) bind more strongly on the O-covered Pt surface, while the free energy of the OOH state (ΔG1 + ΔG2) and the TS for OOH dissociation (ΔG + ΔG1) are similar for Pt2Mo and Pt."
          [17] "The overall barrier ΔG is about 0.2 eV lower on Pt2Mo than that on Pt, due to the reduced O2adsorption on the skin alloy surface."
          [18] "The aqueous environment, together with the in situ O coverage, plays an important role in facilitating the ORR on alloy surfaces."
          [19] "The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloy is 30%."
          [20] "Therefore, we can conclude that the Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity."
          [21] "A low Mo content (below 30% e.g.Pt5Mo) may achieve a higher stability at high potentials but the activity is not better than Pt at 0.9 V, whilst a high Mo content (above 30%, e.g.PtMo) will start to destabilize the alloy and also reduce the activity."

Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component Klas J. AnderssonFederico Calle-VallejoJan RossmeislIb Chorkendorff* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbate), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
The bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer, (15) alleviating possible CO-poisoning problems.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, (15) the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
The calculations also show weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content in the second layer.
The results with adsorbed CO in Table 1 can explain the θCu > 2/3 ML onset of bulk migration of Cu indicated by our XPS data.
In comparison with the θCu = 2/3 ML case, situations with higher Cu content in the top two layers are significantly less stable, leading to a significant Cu bulk migration driving force.
The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, (17) and this is also approximately where both the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur (see Figure 2).
In forming the SA from the NSA, the interdiffusion mobility allows for Cu migration events to the first layer, and this Cu can then be trapped in the new low-energy SA configuration with CO adsorbed.
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
An important consequence of our results is that they add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.
In view of the earlier indications of increased Pt-group metal bonding to CO when Cu or Ag is present in the first layer with a Pt-group metal, (19-22) our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component
we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure
the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys,
the bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer,
The NSA is unstable at elevated CO pressures and sample temperatures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt SA structure.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
the vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present in the first layer.
the calculated higher stability of the CuPt SA compared with Cu in the bulk with CO adsorption on clean Pt(111) is nearly equal to the free-energy difference (ΔG).
the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K,
the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.

Thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3 d metals in Pt
          DFT calculations of Pt3dPt (111) and Pt3dPt (100)
          Predicted stability of subsurface 3d metal in Pt(111) and Pt(100) in oxygen
          Effect of crystal plane on subsurface stability
          Predicted effect of crystal plane on ORR activity

[1] "Compared with monometallic catalysts, bimetallic catalysts have more surface structural complexity, where the second metalin either the metallic or the oxidized statecan be exposed on the surface,in the near surface region, or embedded in bulk region. It has been demonstrated that the surface structure of the bimetallic catalyst is critical to their catalytic properties."
          [2] "For example, Pt- based bimetallic catalysts consisting of Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals at the subsurface region present super catalytic performances in many reactions compared to the pure Pt surface."
          [3] "The structure of a catalyst surface often changes dynamically during reactions. For example, reversible surface processes such as wettingdewetting and sintering dispersion have been observed in monometallic catalyst sys- tems when the gaseous environment changes between reduc- tive and oxidative conditions."
          [4] "The bimetallic catalysts may show similar dependence of surface structure on the redox po- tential of reaction gases, which offers eventually the opportu- nity to tune the catalytic activity and selectivity."

[1] "One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties."
          [2] "the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface NiPtPt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates."
          [3] "Several other investigations of Pt3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "If Eseg is sufficiently negative, the admetal segregates to the surface to produce the MHH surface monolayer structure. If Eseg is sufficiently positive, the surface layer is the host metal, leading to the formation of the HMH subsurface monolayer structure."
          [5] "the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures."
          [6] "Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals."
          [7] "the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface."
          [8] "An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration."
          [9] "An adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum."
          [10] "The oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for the (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys by Callejas-Tovar and Balbuena."

[1] "Under reductive conditions (vacuum and CO), 3d TM prefers to occupy in the subsurface layer due to its higher surface energy and smaller atomic size."
          [2] "While under the oxidizing conditions, the strong O3d TMs interaction would induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, migrating further in the surface layer to form oxidized 3d TM islands."
          [3] "We find that Pt (1 1 1) with the atomic dispersed 3d TM in surface layers is highly active for CO oxidation via bi-functional mechanism."
          [4] "The interplay between structure and reaction environment as well as effect on the catalytic activity is highlighted."

[1] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [2] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "Under vacuum conditions, the surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [5] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [6] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [7] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [8] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces due to the low surface energy of most oxides."
          [9] "The reversible mass transport processes in response to changes between O2 and H2 contribute to the oscillations in surface structure and composition at PtNi nanoparticle systems."
          [10] "The similar reversible dynamic behaviors have been found in PtCu and PtCo nanoparticle catalysts supported HOPG."
          [11] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [12] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [13] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [14] "The surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [15] "The much larger atomic radius of Pt (1.39 A ) than those of Co (1.25 A ), Ni (1.24 A ), and Cu (1.28 A ) [32] contributes to the surface segregation process."
          [16] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [17] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [18] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [19] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces."
          [20] "The mass transport processes, which are active in the oxidation or reduction reactions, are fully reversible depending on the redox potential of the reaction gases."
          [21] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [22] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [23] "The reversible behavior can be more clearly demonstrated when plotting the ratio of Ni 2p to Pt 4f intensity with the oxidation and reduction experimental cycles."
          [24] "The reversible structure changes in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems are of great significance in many real catalytic processes."

[1] "Fe-Pt catalysts have also been used in the preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO in excess H2, and a high selectivity of approximately 100% for CO oxidation was ob- MA Teng et al. / Chinese Journal of Catalysis, 2010, 31: 2432"
          [2] "The Pt-skin structures also showed high activity for catalyzing the hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [13]."
          [3] "The unique catalytic properties of the Pt-skin surfaces were attributed to the modification of the electronic structure of the surface Pt by the subsurface Fe underneath, which influenced the adsorption and reaction characteristics of the surface species [14,15]."
          [4] "The controlled preparation of the various Fe-Pt surface structures enabled us to derive the rela- tionship between the structure and catalytic properties, which would help the design of high-performance and low-cost catalysts."

[1] "Surface segregation has been drawing much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science, catalysis and surface chemistry."
          [2] "The phenomenon is able to influence many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc."
          [3] "In particular, it has been found out that the catalytic activities of alloys can be significantly altered through surface segregation."
          [4] "Platinum-based alloys have been extensively studied as cathode catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR)."
          [5] "Compared to pure Pt, enhanced ORR activities were observed in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [6] "Remarkably, surface segregation was found closely related to the activity improvement."
          [7] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk alloy of Pt3Co and the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt-segregating on the topmost layer of the annealed surface."
          [8] "The ORR was uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the rate of reaction is four times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The unusual catalytic activity has intrigued many researchers and numerous experimental and computational studies have been carried out for the surface segregation of Pt alloys."
          [10] "For most of them, the endeavors focused on the understanding of the surface and subsurface structures and electronic properties under vacuum conditions."
          [11] "However, catalytic reactions such as the ORR are typically take place under operating environments with various adsorbates."
          [12] "The adsorbates can affect the surface segregation trend and even change the surface composition of the alloys in some cases."
          [13] "As the catalytic properties are primarily determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the surface composition of the alloys, studying the segregation trend of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is thus of great importance."

[1] "The stability of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys and the tendency for surface segregation of Pd and Pt subsurface guest metals in these surface alloys is studied by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and Auger electron spec- troscopy (AES)."
          [2] "Hence, the AES results confirm the findings of the STM mea- surements, with an (almost) complete restoration of the origi- nal surface alloy composition after Ru deposition and subse- quent re-alloying, indicative of (almost) complete segregation of the buried Pd (Pt) to the surface layer, and a slight loss of Pt during the re-alloying step."
          [3] "The slight differences in the stability of the surface alloy may be caused by the lower Pd content (44%) in the surface alloy compared to Pt (70%)."
          [4] "The preference for surface segregation of a metal atom dissolved in a host metal is related to the dif- ference in surface energies of the two species and the differ- ence of the two optimal nearest-neighbor distances of host and guest metal."
          [5] "The surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1) and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1),[6669] in good agreement with the ob- served tendency for segregation of Pt and Pd."
          [6] "Also the size mismatch of the larger guest metals Pt (0.277 nm) and Pd (0.275 nm) compared to the Ru(0001) single crystal (0.270 nm) would favor the inclusion of the impurity metals in the tensile stressed outermost Ru layer, providing additional driving force for surface segregation."
          [7] "The floating behavior was studied in detail by following the variation in the surface morphology and structure during a series of four preparation steps: 1) deposition of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001), 2) surface alloy formation by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s), 3) deposition of Ru on the sur- face alloy at 500 K, and 4) re-alloying by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s)."
          [8] "Based on these data, considering only exchange between the surface layer and the subsurface region consisting of the second (bulk dissolution inhibited) and using the annealing temperatures of 1350 K and 1150 K, respectively, the probability that a small amount of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001) is dissolved in the subsurface region (buried by a layer of substrate material) during surface alloy formation can be estimated by a simple Boltzmann ap- proach given by Equation (1):pbury  exp  DEseg kBT"
          [9] "The ob- servation of a distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on the Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) surface alloy at 500 K, in contrast to the layer-by-layer Ru growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) under similar growth conditions, may be attributed to the lower Pd content,the different 2D distribution of the components in the latter surface alloy with more Ru3 surface sites as compared to Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001), or to a less pronounced difference be- tween RuRu bonding and RuPd bonding."

[1] "Density functional theory is used to study oxygen adsorption and its effect on surface segregation in (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys."
          [2] "It is found that the most energetically favorable oxygen adsorption site is the bridge site over and parallel to the (100) step."
          [3] "Surface segregation phenomena is observed in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir and Pt/Co(core) systems."
          [4] "The Pt/Ir(core) structure was the only one, among the studied systems, that showed antisegregation behavior even in presence of oxygen adsorbed."
          [5] "For alloys, it has been reported that catalytic activity depends dramatically on how the atoms arrange in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface [912] and it is influenced by the surface segregation phenomenon."
          [6] "Therefore, it is important to characterize the surface atomic distribution of catalytic alloys and to elucidate the effect of segregation on surface structure."

[1] "The lower surface free energy of Au compared to Pt (1.13 (44, 45) vs 2.48 (46) J/m2) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when Au is deposited on top of Pt. The fact that Au and Pt are immiscible at Au compositions greater than 17% (47) also suggests that Au should remain on top of the Pt clusters."
          [2] "The adsorption of CO on the PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes the diffusion of Pt to the surface of the clusters, and this phenomena is most pronounced for the clusters that are initially pure Au at the surface."
          [3] "Density functional theory calculations demonstrate that it is thermodynamically favorable for Pt to diffuse to the cluster surface in order to bind to CO."
          [4] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites. Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [5] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [6] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites."
          [7] "Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [8] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are initially pure Au; this is presumably because the first step in the oxidation process is O2 dissociation, which requires neighboring Pt sites."

[1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
          [2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
          [3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
          [4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
          [5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
          [7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
          [8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
          [10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."
          [11] "Furthermore, similar to the use of the individual d-band center values for the prediction of binding energies, the difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in the environment of vacuum, hydrogen and oxygen."
          [12] "In order to further correlate DFT calculations with experimental results, a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship is derived to correlate thermodynamic stability from DFT calculations with kinetic barriers from experimental measurements for the Pt3dPt systems."
          [13] "Finally, empirical equations have been developed for predicting the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems both in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [14] "The large difference in the binding energies between the surface and subsurface structures demonstrates the need to understand the stability of these configurations in the reacting environment."
          [15] "As shown for the Pt3d bimetallic systems, the difference in the oxygen binding energy of oxygen for these two configurations is on the order of hundreds of kcal/mol."
          [16] "Based on Sabatiers principle, this would suggest that if a subsurface alloy structure exhibited the optimal binding properties (as for dehydrogenation and ORR), the surface structure would likely lead to intermediates bound too strongly and halt the reaction."
          [17] "Conversely, if the surface alloy structure were found to exhibit the optimal binding properties (as for steam reforming), the subsurface structure would be predicted to bind adsorbates too weakly and prevent the reaction from proceeding."
          [18] "The stability of the bimetallic structures has been considered with a number of atomic species, which can be extended to more complex adsorbates using scaling relationships."
          [19] "The DFT results in Fig. 2 predict that the subsurface PtMPt(111) configuration is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while the surface MPtPt(111) configuration is predicted to be preferred with 0.5 ML O."
          [20] "The DFT results predict that the surface 3dPtPt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen."
          [21] "Parallel with the predictions from DFT, experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [22] "The AES results suggest that there are two regions of segregation."
          [23] "The similar segregation behavior in Figs. 7 and 8 reveals that DFT predictions and experimental measurements on single crystal bimetallic surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrate, bridging the materials gap."
          [24] "The results from this prediction are shown in Fig. 9, where the left axis is the heat of reaction and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation for each Pt3dPt subsurface structure."
          [25] "Comparing these bimetallic systems, all the Pt3dPt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [26] "The linear trends in Fig. 10 for all the systems show that the correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can be used beyond the Pt3d alloys."
          [27] "The main modification of switching the admetal/host component is to shift the absolute driving potential of the segregation."
          [28] "This general stability trend predicts that all the bimetallic systems in Fig. 10 have the same thermodynamically preferred bimetallic configuration in each environment, with the subsurface configuration being preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and the surface configuration being favored with 0.5 ML O."



[1] "The formation of a Pt skin layer with predominantly (111)-oriented facets induced by dissolution of Fe atoms in a PtFe alloy for fuel cell applications is investigated for the first time by using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [2] "While electrochemical and other surface analysis techniques such as XPS, AES and EXAFS have been extensively used in the study of thin solid films, the information obtained from these methods is esssentially macroscopic and does not provide direct atomic-scale models for the film structures."
          [3] "In this paper, we report an in situ STM study of a PtFe film in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [4] "The small peak at 0.71 V indicated by an arrow is assigned to the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process.13 However, the peak decreased with each additional potential cycle and finally disappeared, resulting in a steady CV. This result shows that the potential cycles lead to increased dissolution of Fe and the rearrangement of Pt at the surface and formation of a Pt skin layer, protecting the underlying PtFe alloy from corrosion."
          [5] "The present result will shed new insight for electrode material study in fuel cells. Further studies on the Pt skin layer formed on the PtFe alloy electrode, such as the adsorption and oxidation of CO, are now in progress by using STM from the viewpoint of electrocatalysis."



[1] "Platinum has become the most popular cathode electrocatalyst in polymer electrode membrane (PEM) fuel cells. However, its relatively sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) significantly limits the catalytic efficiency."
          [2] "In recent years, Pt-based alloys, composed of Pt and other transition metals, have been extensively investigated (1-7) owing to their enhanced ORR activity."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process."
          [4] "A pure Pt-skin is formed in the outmost layer of the alloys due to surface segregation of Pt atoms."
          [5] "The enhanced stability of Pt-based catalysts is also closely related to surface segregation."
          [6] "Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, (29, 30) whereas Co is usually unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. (16, 17)"
          [7] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface. The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [8] "This leads to the conclusion that Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, consistent with previous studies. (26, 28-30)"
          [9] "For the PtCo alloy, the conversion from 2 to 1 has an energy barrier of 0.63 eV, much lower than that of the competitive step from 3 to 4 (1.15 eV), suggesting the surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer compared to the Pt atoms."
          [10] "Accordingly, structure 4 most likely will not be formed, and thus the continuous segregation of Co cannot be reached."
          [11] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."
          [12] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process. For example, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloys and on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces and the reaction rate is four times that of the pure Pt catalyst."
          [13] "Owing to the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys, numerous studies have been carried out using modern experimental and computational techniques."
          [14] "For many Pt alloy systems, segregation trends have been unambiguously identified, and the components of surface and subsurface regions have successfully been characterized."
          [15] "The dissolution of metal atoms results in some defects on the alloy surface, which are critical to the rearrangement process."
          [16] "The phenomenon can also be observed in acidic solution, often with dissolution of the alloyed metal and rearrangement of Pt atoms."
          [17] "The segregation process thus includes interlayer migration of the impurity atom, vacancy movement at the second layer, and vacancy regeneration at the surface layer."
          [18] "Our segregation model can successfully interpret these phenomena, particularly, from a kinetics viewpoint."
          [19] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface."
          [20] "The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [21] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."





[1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "Since the catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "In this paper, we chose the well-investigated Pt3M(1 1 1) (M = Ag, Au, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ir, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pd, Re, Rh, Ru, Ti, V) alloy systems."
          [11] "Our calculations show that surface segregation is determined not only by atomic size and magnitude of the surface energy but also by the subsurface atomic structure."
          [12] "Notably, we have found that a correlation between the Pt surface segregation trend and the displacement of the metal M out of the alloy surface. Such displacement can effectively predict surface segregation regardless of the subsurface segregation structures."
          [13] "The interlayer distance is also found to be correlated with the segregation energy."
          [14] "Furthermore, this study reveals that the surface geometry is not responsible for the enhanced ORR activity of the Pt-skin surfaces for Pt3Ni(1 1 1) and Pt3Co(1 1 1); instead the modified electronic structure should plays a key role for the catalytic reactions."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The enhanced activities can be attributed to two critical factors: the surface electronic structure and the surface bond length of alloy systems."
          [10] "The surface geometry has been argued to be able to considerably alter the catalytic efficiency."
          [11] "For each non-segregated alloy, the surface metal bond length varies narrowly (up to 0.12 Å)."
          [12] "The surface geometry for the Pt-segregated structures is found to be close to the non-segregated geometry, although the M atoms are all replaced by Pt atoms."
          [13] "For the well-studied Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the maximum deviation of the surface bond length is only 0.002 Å after Pt segregation."
          [14] "Therefore, the geometric effect does not contribute to the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces; instead the electronic structures modified through surface segregation should be the main factor for such enhancement."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "Surface segregation is also governed by temperature and by the presence of adsorbates."



Ternary alloys exhibit a strong Pt surface segregation tendency leading to the formation of a Pt monolayer (ML) on their surfaces. The presence of such top Pt ML induces relatively weaker binding strengths of O and OH in the ternary alloys, suggesting further activity enhancement for the ORR compared to the corresponding bimetallic alloy surfaces. Moreover, the Pt-skin surfaces of and show an enhanced electrochemical stability with respect to the dissolution of Pt atoms from the alloy surface.

[1] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [2] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [3] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [4] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [5] "We find that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface)."
          [6] "In the upper right and lower left quadrants, the parity line divides segregating from non-segregating regions."
          [7] "We have confirmed that this simple technique reliably predicts segregation behaviour in the presence of hydrogen, although there may be exceptions in cases where Eseg and BEHsol  BEHhost are within 0.1 eV of one another."
          [8] "In general, Fig. 1 suggests that hydrogen will not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs, at least at low temperatures and pressures."
          [9] "The range of BEs of oxygen, sulphur and CO across the pure transition metals is larger than is the corresponding range for hydrogen (the range of BE between Au and Ru, for example, is 0.75 eV for H, 1.87 eV for CO, 2.25 eV for S and 2.70 eV for O), so these species will generally have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [10] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [11] "In some cases, a portion of the solute in a subsurface alloy may segregate more deeply into the host."
          [12] "In other cases, the total coverage of solute in the surface region may differ from one monolayer, leading to different types of subsurface alloy structures26."
          [13] "In still other situations, arrangements of atoms with unusual periodicity (or even no periodicity at all) may permit the formation of defects or long-range reconstructions27,28."
          [14] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below."
          [15] "However, the deviations from the idealized cases do have a quantitative effect on the properties of adsorbates on these NSAs."
          [16] "Thus, to benefit fully from the unique catalytic properties of NSAs, more precise control of metal catalyst surface structure will be needed, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques."
          [17] "Recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and in nanoparticle fabrication technologies for metals suggest that practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off29,30,31."
          [18] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [19] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [20] "To develop new NSAs for such processes, we use periodic, self-consistent density functional theory calculations that have shown considerable predictive power for catalysis20."
          [21] "We find, however, that selected NSAs offer an exciting exception to this rule by simultaneously allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers."
          [22] "The lowering of the transition-state energy is observed even on non-ideal NSAs although the effect is less pronounced."
          [23] "Accordingly, NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures."
          [24] "This new class of near-surface alloys could thus assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds, and could, potentially, permit easier separation and storage of hydrogen."
          [25] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [26] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [27] "We have found that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface; see Fig. 1)."
          [28] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [29] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below (some experimental studies have already shown significantly modified catalytic activity, along the lines of our theoretical predictions, even on non-ideal NSAs10,11)."



[1] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,34, and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [2] "By contrast, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms the Pt removal is facilitated, because the surface vacancy can be more strongly stabilized by O atoms compared to the initial perfect surface."
          [3] "This can be understood as follows. Firstly, the Pt atoms at the surface vacancy are less coordinated and possess more active d-states, which can more strongly bond with O atoms, compared to terrace Pt atoms."
          [4] "Secondly, with the exposure of the second layer atoms at the surface vacancy, it is possible to form a much stronger OM bond compared to the OPt bond."
          [5] "This is indeed observed in our search for the optimum structure after a Pt removal, which shows that the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by O atoms that sink to bond with the solute M atoms at the second layer."
          [6] "For example, in Pt2Ti skin alloys, the surface vacancies with a configuration containing OTi bonding are much more stable (by 1.44 eV) than those with only OPt bonding."
          [7] "This is consistent with the fact that the atomic O on metals is anion-like, with a strong tendency to accept electrons, and prefers to form ionic-bonds."
          [8] "By analyzing a large set of Pt alloys, we show that alloys are in general less stable than Pt at the same O coverage under electrochemical conditions, and that maintaining a zero O coverage at the working potentials (e.g. 0.9 V) is key to achieve both high activity and stability."
          [9] "From more than 20 different Pt2M alloys, we identify Mo as a good element, which can alloy with Pt to make a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials."
          [10] "We further show that Pt2Mo possesses a lower kinetic barrier for OR compared to Pt, and the barrier towards OOH dissociation is a key kinetic parameter for OR activity."
          [11] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,33,34 and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [12] "The results imply that the stability of even skin alloys under electrochemical conditions could be a severe problem for the long-term operation of cathodes, without even mentioning the activity."
          [13] "Theoretically, the thermodynamic equilibrium O coverage under electrochemical potentials can be determined by constructing the surface phase diagram."
          [14] "It reveals that up to the high potential 1.05 V, only Pt2Mo exhibits a higher stability than pure Pt."
          [15] "The ORR on a Pt2Mo alloy surface follows a similar reaction profile as that on Pt, as shown in Fig. 3."
          [16] "We can see that the O/OH (ΔG1 + ΔG3 in Fig. 3) and molecular O2 (ΔG1) bind more strongly on the O-covered Pt surface, while the free energy of the OOH state (ΔG1 + ΔG2) and the TS for OOH dissociation (ΔG + ΔG1) are similar for Pt2Mo and Pt."
          [17] "The overall barrier ΔG is about 0.2 eV lower on Pt2Mo than that on Pt, due to the reduced O2adsorption on the skin alloy surface."
          [18] "The aqueous environment, together with the in situ O coverage, plays an important role in facilitating the ORR on alloy surfaces."
          [19] "The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloy is 30%."
          [20] "Therefore, we can conclude that the Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity."
          [21] "A low Mo content (below 30% e.g.Pt5Mo) may achieve a higher stability at high potentials but the activity is not better than Pt at 0.9 V, whilst a high Mo content (above 30%, e.g.PtMo) will start to destabilize the alloy and also reduce the activity."

Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component Klas J. AnderssonFederico Calle-VallejoJan RossmeislIb Chorkendorff* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbate), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
The bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer, (15) alleviating possible CO-poisoning problems.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, (15) the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
The calculations also show weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content in the second layer.
The results with adsorbed CO in Table 1 can explain the θCu > 2/3 ML onset of bulk migration of Cu indicated by our XPS data.
In comparison with the θCu = 2/3 ML case, situations with higher Cu content in the top two layers are significantly less stable, leading to a significant Cu bulk migration driving force.
The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, (17) and this is also approximately where both the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur (see Figure 2).
In forming the SA from the NSA, the interdiffusion mobility allows for Cu migration events to the first layer, and this Cu can then be trapped in the new low-energy SA configuration with CO adsorbed.
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
An important consequence of our results is that they add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.
In view of the earlier indications of increased Pt-group metal bonding to CO when Cu or Ag is present in the first layer with a Pt-group metal, (19-22) our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component
we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure
the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys,
the bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer,
The NSA is unstable at elevated CO pressures and sample temperatures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt SA structure.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
the vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present in the first layer.
the calculated higher stability of the CuPt SA compared with Cu in the bulk with CO adsorption on clean Pt(111) is nearly equal to the free-energy difference (ΔG).
the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K,
the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.

Thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3 d metals in Pt
          DFT calculations of Pt3dPt (111) and Pt3dPt (100)
          Predicted stability of subsurface 3d metal in Pt(111) and Pt(100) in oxygen
          Effect of crystal plane on subsurface stability
          Predicted effect of crystal plane on ORR activity

[1] "Compared with monometallic catalysts, bimetallic catalysts have more surface structural complexity, where the second metalin either the metallic or the oxidized statecan be exposed on the surface,in the near surface region, or embedded in bulk region. It has been demonstrated that the surface structure of the bimetallic catalyst is critical to their catalytic properties."
          [2] "For example, Pt- based bimetallic catalysts consisting of Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals at the subsurface region present super catalytic performances in many reactions compared to the pure Pt surface."
          [3] "The structure of a catalyst surface often changes dynamically during reactions. For example, reversible surface processes such as wettingdewetting and sintering dispersion have been observed in monometallic catalyst sys- tems when the gaseous environment changes between reduc- tive and oxidative conditions."
          [4] "The bimetallic catalysts may show similar dependence of surface structure on the redox po- tential of reaction gases, which offers eventually the opportu- nity to tune the catalytic activity and selectivity."

[1] "One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties."
          [2] "the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface NiPtPt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates."
          [3] "Several other investigations of Pt3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "If Eseg is sufficiently negative, the admetal segregates to the surface to produce the MHH surface monolayer structure. If Eseg is sufficiently positive, the surface layer is the host metal, leading to the formation of the HMH subsurface monolayer structure."
          [5] "the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures."
          [6] "Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals."
          [7] "the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface."
          [8] "An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration."
          [9] "An adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum."
          [10] "The oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for the (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys by Callejas-Tovar and Balbuena."

[1] "Under reductive conditions (vacuum and CO), 3d TM prefers to occupy in the subsurface layer due to its higher surface energy and smaller atomic size."
          [2] "While under the oxidizing conditions, the strong O3d TMs interaction would induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, migrating further in the surface layer to form oxidized 3d TM islands."
          [3] "We find that Pt (1 1 1) with the atomic dispersed 3d TM in surface layers is highly active for CO oxidation via bi-functional mechanism."
          [4] "The interplay between structure and reaction environment as well as effect on the catalytic activity is highlighted."

[1] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [2] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "Under vacuum conditions, the surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [5] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [6] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [7] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [8] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces due to the low surface energy of most oxides."
          [9] "The reversible mass transport processes in response to changes between O2 and H2 contribute to the oscillations in surface structure and composition at PtNi nanoparticle systems."
          [10] "The similar reversible dynamic behaviors have been found in PtCu and PtCo nanoparticle catalysts supported HOPG."
          [11] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [12] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [13] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [14] "The surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [15] "The much larger atomic radius of Pt (1.39 A ) than those of Co (1.25 A ), Ni (1.24 A ), and Cu (1.28 A ) [32] contributes to the surface segregation process."
          [16] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [17] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [18] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [19] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces."
          [20] "The mass transport processes, which are active in the oxidation or reduction reactions, are fully reversible depending on the redox potential of the reaction gases."
          [21] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [22] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [23] "The reversible behavior can be more clearly demonstrated when plotting the ratio of Ni 2p to Pt 4f intensity with the oxidation and reduction experimental cycles."
          [24] "The reversible structure changes in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems are of great significance in many real catalytic processes."

[1] "Fe-Pt catalysts have also been used in the preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO in excess H2, and a high selectivity of approximately 100% for CO oxidation was ob- MA Teng et al. / Chinese Journal of Catalysis, 2010, 31: 2432"
          [2] "The Pt-skin structures also showed high activity for catalyzing the hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [13]."
          [3] "The unique catalytic properties of the Pt-skin surfaces were attributed to the modification of the electronic structure of the surface Pt by the subsurface Fe underneath, which influenced the adsorption and reaction characteristics of the surface species [14,15]."
          [4] "The controlled preparation of the various Fe-Pt surface structures enabled us to derive the rela- tionship between the structure and catalytic properties, which would help the design of high-performance and low-cost catalysts."

[1] "Surface segregation has been drawing much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science, catalysis and surface chemistry."
          [2] "The phenomenon is able to influence many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc."
          [3] "In particular, it has been found out that the catalytic activities of alloys can be significantly altered through surface segregation."
          [4] "Platinum-based alloys have been extensively studied as cathode catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR)."
          [5] "Compared to pure Pt, enhanced ORR activities were observed in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [6] "Remarkably, surface segregation was found closely related to the activity improvement."
          [7] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk alloy of Pt3Co and the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt-segregating on the topmost layer of the annealed surface."
          [8] "The ORR was uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the rate of reaction is four times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The unusual catalytic activity has intrigued many researchers and numerous experimental and computational studies have been carried out for the surface segregation of Pt alloys."
          [10] "For most of them, the endeavors focused on the understanding of the surface and subsurface structures and electronic properties under vacuum conditions."
          [11] "However, catalytic reactions such as the ORR are typically take place under operating environments with various adsorbates."
          [12] "The adsorbates can affect the surface segregation trend and even change the surface composition of the alloys in some cases."
          [13] "As the catalytic properties are primarily determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the surface composition of the alloys, studying the segregation trend of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is thus of great importance."

[1] "The stability of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys and the tendency for surface segregation of Pd and Pt subsurface guest metals in these surface alloys is studied by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and Auger electron spec- troscopy (AES)."
          [2] "Hence, the AES results confirm the findings of the STM mea- surements, with an (almost) complete restoration of the origi- nal surface alloy composition after Ru deposition and subse- quent re-alloying, indicative of (almost) complete segregation of the buried Pd (Pt) to the surface layer, and a slight loss of Pt during the re-alloying step."
          [3] "The slight differences in the stability of the surface alloy may be caused by the lower Pd content (44%) in the surface alloy compared to Pt (70%)."
          [4] "The preference for surface segregation of a metal atom dissolved in a host metal is related to the dif- ference in surface energies of the two species and the differ- ence of the two optimal nearest-neighbor distances of host and guest metal."
          [5] "The surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1) and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1),[6669] in good agreement with the ob- served tendency for segregation of Pt and Pd."
          [6] "Also the size mismatch of the larger guest metals Pt (0.277 nm) and Pd (0.275 nm) compared to the Ru(0001) single crystal (0.270 nm) would favor the inclusion of the impurity metals in the tensile stressed outermost Ru layer, providing additional driving force for surface segregation."
          [7] "The floating behavior was studied in detail by following the variation in the surface morphology and structure during a series of four preparation steps: 1) deposition of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001), 2) surface alloy formation by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s), 3) deposition of Ru on the sur- face alloy at 500 K, and 4) re-alloying by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s)."
          [8] "Based on these data, considering only exchange between the surface layer and the subsurface region consisting of the second (bulk dissolution inhibited) and using the annealing temperatures of 1350 K and 1150 K, respectively, the probability that a small amount of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001) is dissolved in the subsurface region (buried by a layer of substrate material) during surface alloy formation can be estimated by a simple Boltzmann ap- proach given by Equation (1):pbury  exp  DEseg kBT"
          [9] "The ob- servation of a distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on the Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) surface alloy at 500 K, in contrast to the layer-by-layer Ru growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) under similar growth conditions, may be attributed to the lower Pd content,the different 2D distribution of the components in the latter surface alloy with more Ru3 surface sites as compared to Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001), or to a less pronounced difference be- tween RuRu bonding and RuPd bonding."

[1] "Density functional theory is used to study oxygen adsorption and its effect on surface segregation in (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys."
          [2] "It is found that the most energetically favorable oxygen adsorption site is the bridge site over and parallel to the (100) step."
          [3] "Surface segregation phenomena is observed in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir and Pt/Co(core) systems."
          [4] "The Pt/Ir(core) structure was the only one, among the studied systems, that showed antisegregation behavior even in presence of oxygen adsorbed."
          [5] "For alloys, it has been reported that catalytic activity depends dramatically on how the atoms arrange in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface [912] and it is influenced by the surface segregation phenomenon."
          [6] "Therefore, it is important to characterize the surface atomic distribution of catalytic alloys and to elucidate the effect of segregation on surface structure."

[1] "The lower surface free energy of Au compared to Pt (1.13 (44, 45) vs 2.48 (46) J/m2) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when Au is deposited on top of Pt. The fact that Au and Pt are immiscible at Au compositions greater than 17% (47) also suggests that Au should remain on top of the Pt clusters."
          [2] "The adsorption of CO on the PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes the diffusion of Pt to the surface of the clusters, and this phenomena is most pronounced for the clusters that are initially pure Au at the surface."
          [3] "Density functional theory calculations demonstrate that it is thermodynamically favorable for Pt to diffuse to the cluster surface in order to bind to CO."
          [4] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites. Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [5] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [6] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites."
          [7] "Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [8] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are initially pure Au; this is presumably because the first step in the oxidation process is O2 dissociation, which requires neighboring Pt sites."

[1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
          [2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
          [3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
          [4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
          [5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
          [7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
          [8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
          [10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."
          [11] "Furthermore, similar to the use of the individual d-band center values for the prediction of binding energies, the difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in the environment of vacuum, hydrogen and oxygen."
          [12] "In order to further correlate DFT calculations with experimental results, a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship is derived to correlate thermodynamic stability from DFT calculations with kinetic barriers from experimental measurements for the Pt3dPt systems."
          [13] "Finally, empirical equations have been developed for predicting the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems both in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [14] "The large difference in the binding energies between the surface and subsurface structures demonstrates the need to understand the stability of these configurations in the reacting environment."
          [15] "As shown for the Pt3d bimetallic systems, the difference in the oxygen binding energy of oxygen for these two configurations is on the order of hundreds of kcal/mol."
          [16] "Based on Sabatiers principle, this would suggest that if a subsurface alloy structure exhibited the optimal binding properties (as for dehydrogenation and ORR), the surface structure would likely lead to intermediates bound too strongly and halt the reaction."
          [17] "Conversely, if the surface alloy structure were found to exhibit the optimal binding properties (as for steam reforming), the subsurface structure would be predicted to bind adsorbates too weakly and prevent the reaction from proceeding."
          [18] "The stability of the bimetallic structures has been considered with a number of atomic species, which can be extended to more complex adsorbates using scaling relationships."
          [19] "The DFT results in Fig. 2 predict that the subsurface PtMPt(111) configuration is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while the surface MPtPt(111) configuration is predicted to be preferred with 0.5 ML O."
          [20] "The DFT results predict that the surface 3dPtPt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen."
          [21] "Parallel with the predictions from DFT, experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [22] "The AES results suggest that there are two regions of segregation."
          [23] "The similar segregation behavior in Figs. 7 and 8 reveals that DFT predictions and experimental measurements on single crystal bimetallic surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrate, bridging the materials gap."
          [24] "The results from this prediction are shown in Fig. 9, where the left axis is the heat of reaction and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation for each Pt3dPt subsurface structure."
          [25] "Comparing these bimetallic systems, all the Pt3dPt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [26] "The linear trends in Fig. 10 for all the systems show that the correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can be used beyond the Pt3d alloys."
          [27] "The main modification of switching the admetal/host component is to shift the absolute driving potential of the segregation."
          [28] "This general stability trend predicts that all the bimetallic systems in Fig. 10 have the same thermodynamically preferred bimetallic configuration in each environment, with the subsurface configuration being preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and the surface configuration being favored with 0.5 ML O."



[1] "The formation of a Pt skin layer with predominantly (111)-oriented facets induced by dissolution of Fe atoms in a PtFe alloy for fuel cell applications is investigated for the first time by using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [2] "While electrochemical and other surface analysis techniques such as XPS, AES and EXAFS have been extensively used in the study of thin solid films, the information obtained from these methods is esssentially macroscopic and does not provide direct atomic-scale models for the film structures."
          [3] "In this paper, we report an in situ STM study of a PtFe film in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [4] "The small peak at 0.71 V indicated by an arrow is assigned to the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process.13 However, the peak decreased with each additional potential cycle and finally disappeared, resulting in a steady CV. This result shows that the potential cycles lead to increased dissolution of Fe and the rearrangement of Pt at the surface and formation of a Pt skin layer, protecting the underlying PtFe alloy from corrosion."
          [5] "The present result will shed new insight for electrode material study in fuel cells. Further studies on the Pt skin layer formed on the PtFe alloy electrode, such as the adsorption and oxidation of CO, are now in progress by using STM from the viewpoint of electrocatalysis."



[1] "Platinum has become the most popular cathode electrocatalyst in polymer electrode membrane (PEM) fuel cells. However, its relatively sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) significantly limits the catalytic efficiency."
          [2] "In recent years, Pt-based alloys, composed of Pt and other transition metals, have been extensively investigated (1-7) owing to their enhanced ORR activity."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process."
          [4] "A pure Pt-skin is formed in the outmost layer of the alloys due to surface segregation of Pt atoms."
          [5] "The enhanced stability of Pt-based catalysts is also closely related to surface segregation."
          [6] "Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, (29, 30) whereas Co is usually unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. (16, 17)"
          [7] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface. The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [8] "This leads to the conclusion that Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, consistent with previous studies. (26, 28-30)"
          [9] "For the PtCo alloy, the conversion from 2 to 1 has an energy barrier of 0.63 eV, much lower than that of the competitive step from 3 to 4 (1.15 eV), suggesting the surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer compared to the Pt atoms."
          [10] "Accordingly, structure 4 most likely will not be formed, and thus the continuous segregation of Co cannot be reached."
          [11] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."
          [12] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process. For example, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloys and on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces and the reaction rate is four times that of the pure Pt catalyst."
          [13] "Owing to the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys, numerous studies have been carried out using modern experimental and computational techniques."
          [14] "For many Pt alloy systems, segregation trends have been unambiguously identified, and the components of surface and subsurface regions have successfully been characterized."
          [15] "The dissolution of metal atoms results in some defects on the alloy surface, which are critical to the rearrangement process."
          [16] "The phenomenon can also be observed in acidic solution, often with dissolution of the alloyed metal and rearrangement of Pt atoms."
          [17] "The segregation process thus includes interlayer migration of the impurity atom, vacancy movement at the second layer, and vacancy regeneration at the surface layer."
          [18] "Our segregation model can successfully interpret these phenomena, particularly, from a kinetics viewpoint."
          [19] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface."
          [20] "The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [21] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."





[1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "Since the catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "In this paper, we chose the well-investigated Pt3M(1 1 1) (M = Ag, Au, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ir, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pd, Re, Rh, Ru, Ti, V) alloy systems."
          [11] "Our calculations show that surface segregation is determined not only by atomic size and magnitude of the surface energy but also by the subsurface atomic structure."
          [12] "Notably, we have found that a correlation between the Pt surface segregation trend and the displacement of the metal M out of the alloy surface. Such displacement can effectively predict surface segregation regardless of the subsurface segregation structures."
          [13] "The interlayer distance is also found to be correlated with the segregation energy."
          [14] "Furthermore, this study reveals that the surface geometry is not responsible for the enhanced ORR activity of the Pt-skin surfaces for Pt3Ni(1 1 1) and Pt3Co(1 1 1); instead the modified electronic structure should plays a key role for the catalytic reactions."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The enhanced activities can be attributed to two critical factors: the surface electronic structure and the surface bond length of alloy systems."
          [10] "The surface geometry has been argued to be able to considerably alter the catalytic efficiency."
          [11] "For each non-segregated alloy, the surface metal bond length varies narrowly (up to 0.12 Å)."
          [12] "The surface geometry for the Pt-segregated structures is found to be close to the non-segregated geometry, although the M atoms are all replaced by Pt atoms."
          [13] "For the well-studied Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the maximum deviation of the surface bond length is only 0.002 Å after Pt segregation."
          [14] "Therefore, the geometric effect does not contribute to the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces; instead the electronic structures modified through surface segregation should be the main factor for such enhancement."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "Surface segregation is also governed by temperature and by the presence of adsorbates."



Ternary alloys exhibit a strong Pt surface segregation tendency leading to the formation of a Pt monolayer (ML) on their surfaces. The presence of such top Pt ML induces relatively weaker binding strengths of O and OH in the ternary alloys, suggesting further activity enhancement for the ORR compared to the corresponding bimetallic alloy surfaces. Moreover, the Pt-skin surfaces of and show an enhanced electrochemical stability with respect to the dissolution of Pt atoms from the alloy surface.

[1] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [2] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [3] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [4] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [5] "We find that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface)."
          [6] "In the upper right and lower left quadrants, the parity line divides segregating from non-segregating regions."
          [7] "We have confirmed that this simple technique reliably predicts segregation behaviour in the presence of hydrogen, although there may be exceptions in cases where Eseg and BEHsol  BEHhost are within 0.1 eV of one another."
          [8] "In general, Fig. 1 suggests that hydrogen will not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs, at least at low temperatures and pressures."
          [9] "The range of BEs of oxygen, sulphur and CO across the pure transition metals is larger than is the corresponding range for hydrogen (the range of BE between Au and Ru, for example, is 0.75 eV for H, 1.87 eV for CO, 2.25 eV for S and 2.70 eV for O), so these species will generally have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [10] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [11] "In some cases, a portion of the solute in a subsurface alloy may segregate more deeply into the host."
          [12] "In other cases, the total coverage of solute in the surface region may differ from one monolayer, leading to different types of subsurface alloy structures26."
          [13] "In still other situations, arrangements of atoms with unusual periodicity (or even no periodicity at all) may permit the formation of defects or long-range reconstructions27,28."
          [14] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below."
          [15] "However, the deviations from the idealized cases do have a quantitative effect on the properties of adsorbates on these NSAs."
          [16] "Thus, to benefit fully from the unique catalytic properties of NSAs, more precise control of metal catalyst surface structure will be needed, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques."
          [17] "Recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and in nanoparticle fabrication technologies for metals suggest that practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off29,30,31."
          [18] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [19] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [20] "To develop new NSAs for such processes, we use periodic, self-consistent density functional theory calculations that have shown considerable predictive power for catalysis20."
          [21] "We find, however, that selected NSAs offer an exciting exception to this rule by simultaneously allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers."
          [22] "The lowering of the transition-state energy is observed even on non-ideal NSAs although the effect is less pronounced."
          [23] "Accordingly, NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures."
          [24] "This new class of near-surface alloys could thus assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds, and could, potentially, permit easier separation and storage of hydrogen."
          [25] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [26] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [27] "We have found that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface; see Fig. 1)."
          [28] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [29] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below (some experimental studies have already shown significantly modified catalytic activity, along the lines of our theoretical predictions, even on non-ideal NSAs10,11)."



[1] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,34, and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [2] "By contrast, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms the Pt removal is facilitated, because the surface vacancy can be more strongly stabilized by O atoms compared to the initial perfect surface."
          [3] "This can be understood as follows. Firstly, the Pt atoms at the surface vacancy are less coordinated and possess more active d-states, which can more strongly bond with O atoms, compared to terrace Pt atoms."
          [4] "Secondly, with the exposure of the second layer atoms at the surface vacancy, it is possible to form a much stronger OM bond compared to the OPt bond."
          [5] "This is indeed observed in our search for the optimum structure after a Pt removal, which shows that the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by O atoms that sink to bond with the solute M atoms at the second layer."
          [6] "For example, in Pt2Ti skin alloys, the surface vacancies with a configuration containing OTi bonding are much more stable (by 1.44 eV) than those with only OPt bonding."
          [7] "This is consistent with the fact that the atomic O on metals is anion-like, with a strong tendency to accept electrons, and prefers to form ionic-bonds."
          [8] "By analyzing a large set of Pt alloys, we show that alloys are in general less stable than Pt at the same O coverage under electrochemical conditions, and that maintaining a zero O coverage at the working potentials (e.g. 0.9 V) is key to achieve both high activity and stability."
          [9] "From more than 20 different Pt2M alloys, we identify Mo as a good element, which can alloy with Pt to make a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials."
          [10] "We further show that Pt2Mo possesses a lower kinetic barrier for OR compared to Pt, and the barrier towards OOH dissociation is a key kinetic parameter for OR activity."
          [11] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,33,34 and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [12] "The results imply that the stability of even skin alloys under electrochemical conditions could be a severe problem for the long-term operation of cathodes, without even mentioning the activity."
          [13] "Theoretically, the thermodynamic equilibrium O coverage under electrochemical potentials can be determined by constructing the surface phase diagram."
          [14] "It reveals that up to the high potential 1.05 V, only Pt2Mo exhibits a higher stability than pure Pt."
          [15] "The ORR on a Pt2Mo alloy surface follows a similar reaction profile as that on Pt, as shown in Fig. 3."
          [16] "We can see that the O/OH (ΔG1 + ΔG3 in Fig. 3) and molecular O2 (ΔG1) bind more strongly on the O-covered Pt surface, while the free energy of the OOH state (ΔG1 + ΔG2) and the TS for OOH dissociation (ΔG + ΔG1) are similar for Pt2Mo and Pt."
          [17] "The overall barrier ΔG is about 0.2 eV lower on Pt2Mo than that on Pt, due to the reduced O2adsorption on the skin alloy surface."
          [18] "The aqueous environment, together with the in situ O coverage, plays an important role in facilitating the ORR on alloy surfaces."
          [19] "The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloy is 30%."
          [20] "Therefore, we can conclude that the Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity."
          [21] "A low Mo content (below 30% e.g.Pt5Mo) may achieve a higher stability at high potentials but the activity is not better than Pt at 0.9 V, whilst a high Mo content (above 30%, e.g.PtMo) will start to destabilize the alloy and also reduce the activity."

Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component Klas J. AnderssonFederico Calle-VallejoJan RossmeislIb Chorkendorff* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbate), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
The bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer, (15) alleviating possible CO-poisoning problems.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, (15) the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
The calculations also show weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content in the second layer.
The results with adsorbed CO in Table 1 can explain the θCu > 2/3 ML onset of bulk migration of Cu indicated by our XPS data.
In comparison with the θCu = 2/3 ML case, situations with higher Cu content in the top two layers are significantly less stable, leading to a significant Cu bulk migration driving force.
The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, (17) and this is also approximately where both the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur (see Figure 2).
In forming the SA from the NSA, the interdiffusion mobility allows for Cu migration events to the first layer, and this Cu can then be trapped in the new low-energy SA configuration with CO adsorbed.
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
An important consequence of our results is that they add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.
In view of the earlier indications of increased Pt-group metal bonding to CO when Cu or Ag is present in the first layer with a Pt-group metal, (19-22) our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component
we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure
the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys,
the bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer,
The NSA is unstable at elevated CO pressures and sample temperatures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt SA structure.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
the vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present in the first layer.
the calculated higher stability of the CuPt SA compared with Cu in the bulk with CO adsorption on clean Pt(111) is nearly equal to the free-energy difference (ΔG).
the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K,
the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.

Thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3 d metals in Pt
          DFT calculations of Pt3dPt (111) and Pt3dPt (100)
          Predicted stability of subsurface 3d metal in Pt(111) and Pt(100) in oxygen
          Effect of crystal plane on subsurface stability
          Predicted effect of crystal plane on ORR activity

[1] "Compared with monometallic catalysts, bimetallic catalysts have more surface structural complexity, where the second metalin either the metallic or the oxidized statecan be exposed on the surface,in the near surface region, or embedded in bulk region. It has been demonstrated that the surface structure of the bimetallic catalyst is critical to their catalytic properties."
          [2] "For example, Pt- based bimetallic catalysts consisting of Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals at the subsurface region present super catalytic performances in many reactions compared to the pure Pt surface."
          [3] "The structure of a catalyst surface often changes dynamically during reactions. For example, reversible surface processes such as wettingdewetting and sintering dispersion have been observed in monometallic catalyst sys- tems when the gaseous environment changes between reduc- tive and oxidative conditions."
          [4] "The bimetallic catalysts may show similar dependence of surface structure on the redox po- tential of reaction gases, which offers eventually the opportu- nity to tune the catalytic activity and selectivity."

[1] "One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties."
          [2] "the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface NiPtPt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates."
          [3] "Several other investigations of Pt3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "If Eseg is sufficiently negative, the admetal segregates to the surface to produce the MHH surface monolayer structure. If Eseg is sufficiently positive, the surface layer is the host metal, leading to the formation of the HMH subsurface monolayer structure."
          [5] "the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures."
          [6] "Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals."
          [7] "the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface."
          [8] "An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration."
          [9] "An adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum."
          [10] "The oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for the (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys by Callejas-Tovar and Balbuena."

[1] "Under reductive conditions (vacuum and CO), 3d TM prefers to occupy in the subsurface layer due to its higher surface energy and smaller atomic size."
          [2] "While under the oxidizing conditions, the strong O3d TMs interaction would induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, migrating further in the surface layer to form oxidized 3d TM islands."
          [3] "We find that Pt (1 1 1) with the atomic dispersed 3d TM in surface layers is highly active for CO oxidation via bi-functional mechanism."
          [4] "The interplay between structure and reaction environment as well as effect on the catalytic activity is highlighted."

[1] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [2] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "Under vacuum conditions, the surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [5] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [6] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [7] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [8] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces due to the low surface energy of most oxides."
          [9] "The reversible mass transport processes in response to changes between O2 and H2 contribute to the oscillations in surface structure and composition at PtNi nanoparticle systems."
          [10] "The similar reversible dynamic behaviors have been found in PtCu and PtCo nanoparticle catalysts supported HOPG."
          [11] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [12] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [13] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [14] "The surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [15] "The much larger atomic radius of Pt (1.39 A ) than those of Co (1.25 A ), Ni (1.24 A ), and Cu (1.28 A ) [32] contributes to the surface segregation process."
          [16] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [17] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [18] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [19] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces."
          [20] "The mass transport processes, which are active in the oxidation or reduction reactions, are fully reversible depending on the redox potential of the reaction gases."
          [21] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [22] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [23] "The reversible behavior can be more clearly demonstrated when plotting the ratio of Ni 2p to Pt 4f intensity with the oxidation and reduction experimental cycles."
          [24] "The reversible structure changes in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems are of great significance in many real catalytic processes."

[1] "Fe-Pt catalysts have also been used in the preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO in excess H2, and a high selectivity of approximately 100% for CO oxidation was ob- MA Teng et al. / Chinese Journal of Catalysis, 2010, 31: 2432"
          [2] "The Pt-skin structures also showed high activity for catalyzing the hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [13]."
          [3] "The unique catalytic properties of the Pt-skin surfaces were attributed to the modification of the electronic structure of the surface Pt by the subsurface Fe underneath, which influenced the adsorption and reaction characteristics of the surface species [14,15]."
          [4] "The controlled preparation of the various Fe-Pt surface structures enabled us to derive the rela- tionship between the structure and catalytic properties, which would help the design of high-performance and low-cost catalysts."

[1] "Surface segregation has been drawing much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science, catalysis and surface chemistry."
          [2] "The phenomenon is able to influence many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc."
          [3] "In particular, it has been found out that the catalytic activities of alloys can be significantly altered through surface segregation."
          [4] "Platinum-based alloys have been extensively studied as cathode catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR)."
          [5] "Compared to pure Pt, enhanced ORR activities were observed in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [6] "Remarkably, surface segregation was found closely related to the activity improvement."
          [7] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk alloy of Pt3Co and the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt-segregating on the topmost layer of the annealed surface."
          [8] "The ORR was uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the rate of reaction is four times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The unusual catalytic activity has intrigued many researchers and numerous experimental and computational studies have been carried out for the surface segregation of Pt alloys."
          [10] "For most of them, the endeavors focused on the understanding of the surface and subsurface structures and electronic properties under vacuum conditions."
          [11] "However, catalytic reactions such as the ORR are typically take place under operating environments with various adsorbates."
          [12] "The adsorbates can affect the surface segregation trend and even change the surface composition of the alloys in some cases."
          [13] "As the catalytic properties are primarily determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the surface composition of the alloys, studying the segregation trend of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is thus of great importance."

[1] "The stability of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys and the tendency for surface segregation of Pd and Pt subsurface guest metals in these surface alloys is studied by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and Auger electron spec- troscopy (AES)."
          [2] "Hence, the AES results confirm the findings of the STM mea- surements, with an (almost) complete restoration of the origi- nal surface alloy composition after Ru deposition and subse- quent re-alloying, indicative of (almost) complete segregation of the buried Pd (Pt) to the surface layer, and a slight loss of Pt during the re-alloying step."
          [3] "The slight differences in the stability of the surface alloy may be caused by the lower Pd content (44%) in the surface alloy compared to Pt (70%)."
          [4] "The preference for surface segregation of a metal atom dissolved in a host metal is related to the dif- ference in surface energies of the two species and the differ- ence of the two optimal nearest-neighbor distances of host and guest metal."
          [5] "The surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1) and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1),[6669] in good agreement with the ob- served tendency for segregation of Pt and Pd."
          [6] "Also the size mismatch of the larger guest metals Pt (0.277 nm) and Pd (0.275 nm) compared to the Ru(0001) single crystal (0.270 nm) would favor the inclusion of the impurity metals in the tensile stressed outermost Ru layer, providing additional driving force for surface segregation."
          [7] "The floating behavior was studied in detail by following the variation in the surface morphology and structure during a series of four preparation steps: 1) deposition of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001), 2) surface alloy formation by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s), 3) deposition of Ru on the sur- face alloy at 500 K, and 4) re-alloying by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s)."
          [8] "Based on these data, considering only exchange between the surface layer and the subsurface region consisting of the second (bulk dissolution inhibited) and using the annealing temperatures of 1350 K and 1150 K, respectively, the probability that a small amount of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001) is dissolved in the subsurface region (buried by a layer of substrate material) during surface alloy formation can be estimated by a simple Boltzmann ap- proach given by Equation (1):pbury  exp  DEseg kBT"
          [9] "The ob- servation of a distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on the Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) surface alloy at 500 K, in contrast to the layer-by-layer Ru growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) under similar growth conditions, may be attributed to the lower Pd content,the different 2D distribution of the components in the latter surface alloy with more Ru3 surface sites as compared to Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001), or to a less pronounced difference be- tween RuRu bonding and RuPd bonding."

[1] "Density functional theory is used to study oxygen adsorption and its effect on surface segregation in (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys."
          [2] "It is found that the most energetically favorable oxygen adsorption site is the bridge site over and parallel to the (100) step."
          [3] "Surface segregation phenomena is observed in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir and Pt/Co(core) systems."
          [4] "The Pt/Ir(core) structure was the only one, among the studied systems, that showed antisegregation behavior even in presence of oxygen adsorbed."
          [5] "For alloys, it has been reported that catalytic activity depends dramatically on how the atoms arrange in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface [912] and it is influenced by the surface segregation phenomenon."
          [6] "Therefore, it is important to characterize the surface atomic distribution of catalytic alloys and to elucidate the effect of segregation on surface structure."

[1] "The lower surface free energy of Au compared to Pt (1.13 (44, 45) vs 2.48 (46) J/m2) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when Au is deposited on top of Pt. The fact that Au and Pt are immiscible at Au compositions greater than 17% (47) also suggests that Au should remain on top of the Pt clusters."
          [2] "The adsorption of CO on the PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes the diffusion of Pt to the surface of the clusters, and this phenomena is most pronounced for the clusters that are initially pure Au at the surface."
          [3] "Density functional theory calculations demonstrate that it is thermodynamically favorable for Pt to diffuse to the cluster surface in order to bind to CO."
          [4] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites. Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [5] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [6] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites."
          [7] "Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [8] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are initially pure Au; this is presumably because the first step in the oxidation process is O2 dissociation, which requires neighboring Pt sites."

[1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
          [2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
          [3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
          [4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
          [5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
          [7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
          [8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
          [10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."
          [11] "Furthermore, similar to the use of the individual d-band center values for the prediction of binding energies, the difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in the environment of vacuum, hydrogen and oxygen."
          [12] "In order to further correlate DFT calculations with experimental results, a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship is derived to correlate thermodynamic stability from DFT calculations with kinetic barriers from experimental measurements for the Pt3dPt systems."
          [13] "Finally, empirical equations have been developed for predicting the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems both in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [14] "The large difference in the binding energies between the surface and subsurface structures demonstrates the need to understand the stability of these configurations in the reacting environment."
          [15] "As shown for the Pt3d bimetallic systems, the difference in the oxygen binding energy of oxygen for these two configurations is on the order of hundreds of kcal/mol."
          [16] "Based on Sabatiers principle, this would suggest that if a subsurface alloy structure exhibited the optimal binding properties (as for dehydrogenation and ORR), the surface structure would likely lead to intermediates bound too strongly and halt the reaction."
          [17] "Conversely, if the surface alloy structure were found to exhibit the optimal binding properties (as for steam reforming), the subsurface structure would be predicted to bind adsorbates too weakly and prevent the reaction from proceeding."
          [18] "The stability of the bimetallic structures has been considered with a number of atomic species, which can be extended to more complex adsorbates using scaling relationships."
          [19] "The DFT results in Fig. 2 predict that the subsurface PtMPt(111) configuration is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while the surface MPtPt(111) configuration is predicted to be preferred with 0.5 ML O."
          [20] "The DFT results predict that the surface 3dPtPt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen."
          [21] "Parallel with the predictions from DFT, experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [22] "The AES results suggest that there are two regions of segregation."
          [23] "The similar segregation behavior in Figs. 7 and 8 reveals that DFT predictions and experimental measurements on single crystal bimetallic surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrate, bridging the materials gap."
          [24] "The results from this prediction are shown in Fig. 9, where the left axis is the heat of reaction and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation for each Pt3dPt subsurface structure."
          [25] "Comparing these bimetallic systems, all the Pt3dPt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [26] "The linear trends in Fig. 10 for all the systems show that the correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can be used beyond the Pt3d alloys."
          [27] "The main modification of switching the admetal/host component is to shift the absolute driving potential of the segregation."
          [28] "This general stability trend predicts that all the bimetallic systems in Fig. 10 have the same thermodynamically preferred bimetallic configuration in each environment, with the subsurface configuration being preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and the surface configuration being favored with 0.5 ML O."



[1] "The formation of a Pt skin layer with predominantly (111)-oriented facets induced by dissolution of Fe atoms in a PtFe alloy for fuel cell applications is investigated for the first time by using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [2] "While electrochemical and other surface analysis techniques such as XPS, AES and EXAFS have been extensively used in the study of thin solid films, the information obtained from these methods is esssentially macroscopic and does not provide direct atomic-scale models for the film structures."
          [3] "In this paper, we report an in situ STM study of a PtFe film in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [4] "The small peak at 0.71 V indicated by an arrow is assigned to the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process.13 However, the peak decreased with each additional potential cycle and finally disappeared, resulting in a steady CV. This result shows that the potential cycles lead to increased dissolution of Fe and the rearrangement of Pt at the surface and formation of a Pt skin layer, protecting the underlying PtFe alloy from corrosion."
          [5] "The present result will shed new insight for electrode material study in fuel cells. Further studies on the Pt skin layer formed on the PtFe alloy electrode, such as the adsorption and oxidation of CO, are now in progress by using STM from the viewpoint of electrocatalysis."



[1] "Platinum has become the most popular cathode electrocatalyst in polymer electrode membrane (PEM) fuel cells. However, its relatively sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) significantly limits the catalytic efficiency."
          [2] "In recent years, Pt-based alloys, composed of Pt and other transition metals, have been extensively investigated (1-7) owing to their enhanced ORR activity."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process."
          [4] "A pure Pt-skin is formed in the outmost layer of the alloys due to surface segregation of Pt atoms."
          [5] "The enhanced stability of Pt-based catalysts is also closely related to surface segregation."
          [6] "Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, (29, 30) whereas Co is usually unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. (16, 17)"
          [7] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface. The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [8] "This leads to the conclusion that Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, consistent with previous studies. (26, 28-30)"
          [9] "For the PtCo alloy, the conversion from 2 to 1 has an energy barrier of 0.63 eV, much lower than that of the competitive step from 3 to 4 (1.15 eV), suggesting the surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer compared to the Pt atoms."
          [10] "Accordingly, structure 4 most likely will not be formed, and thus the continuous segregation of Co cannot be reached."
          [11] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."
          [12] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process. For example, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloys and on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces and the reaction rate is four times that of the pure Pt catalyst."
          [13] "Owing to the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys, numerous studies have been carried out using modern experimental and computational techniques."
          [14] "For many Pt alloy systems, segregation trends have been unambiguously identified, and the components of surface and subsurface regions have successfully been characterized."
          [15] "The dissolution of metal atoms results in some defects on the alloy surface, which are critical to the rearrangement process."
          [16] "The phenomenon can also be observed in acidic solution, often with dissolution of the alloyed metal and rearrangement of Pt atoms."
          [17] "The segregation process thus includes interlayer migration of the impurity atom, vacancy movement at the second layer, and vacancy regeneration at the surface layer."
          [18] "Our segregation model can successfully interpret these phenomena, particularly, from a kinetics viewpoint."
          [19] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface."
          [20] "The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [21] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."





[1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "Since the catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "In this paper, we chose the well-investigated Pt3M(1 1 1) (M = Ag, Au, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ir, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pd, Re, Rh, Ru, Ti, V) alloy systems."
          [11] "Our calculations show that surface segregation is determined not only by atomic size and magnitude of the surface energy but also by the subsurface atomic structure."
          [12] "Notably, we have found that a correlation between the Pt surface segregation trend and the displacement of the metal M out of the alloy surface. Such displacement can effectively predict surface segregation regardless of the subsurface segregation structures."
          [13] "The interlayer distance is also found to be correlated with the segregation energy."
          [14] "Furthermore, this study reveals that the surface geometry is not responsible for the enhanced ORR activity of the Pt-skin surfaces for Pt3Ni(1 1 1) and Pt3Co(1 1 1); instead the modified electronic structure should plays a key role for the catalytic reactions."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The enhanced activities can be attributed to two critical factors: the surface electronic structure and the surface bond length of alloy systems."
          [10] "The surface geometry has been argued to be able to considerably alter the catalytic efficiency."
          [11] "For each non-segregated alloy, the surface metal bond length varies narrowly (up to 0.12 Å)."
          [12] "The surface geometry for the Pt-segregated structures is found to be close to the non-segregated geometry, although the M atoms are all replaced by Pt atoms."
          [13] "For the well-studied Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the maximum deviation of the surface bond length is only 0.002 Å after Pt segregation."
          [14] "Therefore, the geometric effect does not contribute to the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces; instead the electronic structures modified through surface segregation should be the main factor for such enhancement."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "Surface segregation is also governed by temperature and by the presence of adsorbates."



Ternary alloys exhibit a strong Pt surface segregation tendency leading to the formation of a Pt monolayer (ML) on their surfaces. The presence of such top Pt ML induces relatively weaker binding strengths of O and OH in the ternary alloys, suggesting further activity enhancement for the ORR compared to the corresponding bimetallic alloy surfaces. Moreover, the Pt-skin surfaces of and show an enhanced electrochemical stability with respect to the dissolution of Pt atoms from the alloy surface.

[1] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [2] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [3] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [4] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [5] "We find that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface)."
          [6] "In the upper right and lower left quadrants, the parity line divides segregating from non-segregating regions."
          [7] "We have confirmed that this simple technique reliably predicts segregation behaviour in the presence of hydrogen, although there may be exceptions in cases where Eseg and BEHsol  BEHhost are within 0.1 eV of one another."
          [8] "In general, Fig. 1 suggests that hydrogen will not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs, at least at low temperatures and pressures."
          [9] "The range of BEs of oxygen, sulphur and CO across the pure transition metals is larger than is the corresponding range for hydrogen (the range of BE between Au and Ru, for example, is 0.75 eV for H, 1.87 eV for CO, 2.25 eV for S and 2.70 eV for O), so these species will generally have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [10] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [11] "In some cases, a portion of the solute in a subsurface alloy may segregate more deeply into the host."
          [12] "In other cases, the total coverage of solute in the surface region may differ from one monolayer, leading to different types of subsurface alloy structures26."
          [13] "In still other situations, arrangements of atoms with unusual periodicity (or even no periodicity at all) may permit the formation of defects or long-range reconstructions27,28."
          [14] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below."
          [15] "However, the deviations from the idealized cases do have a quantitative effect on the properties of adsorbates on these NSAs."
          [16] "Thus, to benefit fully from the unique catalytic properties of NSAs, more precise control of metal catalyst surface structure will be needed, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques."
          [17] "Recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and in nanoparticle fabrication technologies for metals suggest that practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off29,30,31."
          [18] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [19] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [20] "To develop new NSAs for such processes, we use periodic, self-consistent density functional theory calculations that have shown considerable predictive power for catalysis20."
          [21] "We find, however, that selected NSAs offer an exciting exception to this rule by simultaneously allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers."
          [22] "The lowering of the transition-state energy is observed even on non-ideal NSAs although the effect is less pronounced."
          [23] "Accordingly, NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures."
          [24] "This new class of near-surface alloys could thus assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds, and could, potentially, permit easier separation and storage of hydrogen."
          [25] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [26] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [27] "We have found that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface; see Fig. 1)."
          [28] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [29] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below (some experimental studies have already shown significantly modified catalytic activity, along the lines of our theoretical predictions, even on non-ideal NSAs10,11)."



[1] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,34, and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [2] "By contrast, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms the Pt removal is facilitated, because the surface vacancy can be more strongly stabilized by O atoms compared to the initial perfect surface."
          [3] "This can be understood as follows. Firstly, the Pt atoms at the surface vacancy are less coordinated and possess more active d-states, which can more strongly bond with O atoms, compared to terrace Pt atoms."
          [4] "Secondly, with the exposure of the second layer atoms at the surface vacancy, it is possible to form a much stronger OM bond compared to the OPt bond."
          [5] "This is indeed observed in our search for the optimum structure after a Pt removal, which shows that the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by O atoms that sink to bond with the solute M atoms at the second layer."
          [6] "For example, in Pt2Ti skin alloys, the surface vacancies with a configuration containing OTi bonding are much more stable (by 1.44 eV) than those with only OPt bonding."
          [7] "This is consistent with the fact that the atomic O on metals is anion-like, with a strong tendency to accept electrons, and prefers to form ionic-bonds."
          [8] "By analyzing a large set of Pt alloys, we show that alloys are in general less stable than Pt at the same O coverage under electrochemical conditions, and that maintaining a zero O coverage at the working potentials (e.g. 0.9 V) is key to achieve both high activity and stability."
          [9] "From more than 20 different Pt2M alloys, we identify Mo as a good element, which can alloy with Pt to make a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials."
          [10] "We further show that Pt2Mo possesses a lower kinetic barrier for OR compared to Pt, and the barrier towards OOH dissociation is a key kinetic parameter for OR activity."
          [11] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,33,34 and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [12] "The results imply that the stability of even skin alloys under electrochemical conditions could be a severe problem for the long-term operation of cathodes, without even mentioning the activity."
          [13] "Theoretically, the thermodynamic equilibrium O coverage under electrochemical potentials can be determined by constructing the surface phase diagram."
          [14] "It reveals that up to the high potential 1.05 V, only Pt2Mo exhibits a higher stability than pure Pt."
          [15] "The ORR on a Pt2Mo alloy surface follows a similar reaction profile as that on Pt, as shown in Fig. 3."
          [16] "We can see that the O/OH (ΔG1 + ΔG3 in Fig. 3) and molecular O2 (ΔG1) bind more strongly on the O-covered Pt surface, while the free energy of the OOH state (ΔG1 + ΔG2) and the TS for OOH dissociation (ΔG + ΔG1) are similar for Pt2Mo and Pt."
          [17] "The overall barrier ΔG is about 0.2 eV lower on Pt2Mo than that on Pt, due to the reduced O2adsorption on the skin alloy surface."
          [18] "The aqueous environment, together with the in situ O coverage, plays an important role in facilitating the ORR on alloy surfaces."
          [19] "The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloy is 30%."
          [20] "Therefore, we can conclude that the Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity."
          [21] "A low Mo content (below 30% e.g.Pt5Mo) may achieve a higher stability at high potentials but the activity is not better than Pt at 0.9 V, whilst a high Mo content (above 30%, e.g.PtMo) will start to destabilize the alloy and also reduce the activity."

Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component Klas J. AnderssonFederico Calle-VallejoJan RossmeislIb Chorkendorff* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbate), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
The bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer, (15) alleviating possible CO-poisoning problems.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, (15) the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
The calculations also show weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content in the second layer.
The results with adsorbed CO in Table 1 can explain the θCu > 2/3 ML onset of bulk migration of Cu indicated by our XPS data.
In comparison with the θCu = 2/3 ML case, situations with higher Cu content in the top two layers are significantly less stable, leading to a significant Cu bulk migration driving force.
The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, (17) and this is also approximately where both the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur (see Figure 2).
In forming the SA from the NSA, the interdiffusion mobility allows for Cu migration events to the first layer, and this Cu can then be trapped in the new low-energy SA configuration with CO adsorbed.
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
An important consequence of our results is that they add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.
In view of the earlier indications of increased Pt-group metal bonding to CO when Cu or Ag is present in the first layer with a Pt-group metal, (19-22) our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component
we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure
the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys,
the bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer,
The NSA is unstable at elevated CO pressures and sample temperatures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt SA structure.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
the vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present in the first layer.
the calculated higher stability of the CuPt SA compared with Cu in the bulk with CO adsorption on clean Pt(111) is nearly equal to the free-energy difference (ΔG).
the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K,
the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.

Thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3 d metals in Pt
          DFT calculations of Pt3dPt (111) and Pt3dPt (100)
          Predicted stability of subsurface 3d metal in Pt(111) and Pt(100) in oxygen
          Effect of crystal plane on subsurface stability
          Predicted effect of crystal plane on ORR activity

[1] "Compared with monometallic catalysts, bimetallic catalysts have more surface structural complexity, where the second metalin either the metallic or the oxidized statecan be exposed on the surface,in the near surface region, or embedded in bulk region. It has been demonstrated that the surface structure of the bimetallic catalyst is critical to their catalytic properties."
          [2] "For example, Pt- based bimetallic catalysts consisting of Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals at the subsurface region present super catalytic performances in many reactions compared to the pure Pt surface."
          [3] "The structure of a catalyst surface often changes dynamically during reactions. For example, reversible surface processes such as wettingdewetting and sintering dispersion have been observed in monometallic catalyst sys- tems when the gaseous environment changes between reduc- tive and oxidative conditions."
          [4] "The bimetallic catalysts may show similar dependence of surface structure on the redox po- tential of reaction gases, which offers eventually the opportu- nity to tune the catalytic activity and selectivity."

[1] "One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties."
          [2] "the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface NiPtPt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates."
          [3] "Several other investigations of Pt3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "If Eseg is sufficiently negative, the admetal segregates to the surface to produce the MHH surface monolayer structure. If Eseg is sufficiently positive, the surface layer is the host metal, leading to the formation of the HMH subsurface monolayer structure."
          [5] "the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures."
          [6] "Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals."
          [7] "the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface."
          [8] "An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration."
          [9] "An adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum."
          [10] "The oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for the (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys by Callejas-Tovar and Balbuena."

[1] "Under reductive conditions (vacuum and CO), 3d TM prefers to occupy in the subsurface layer due to its higher surface energy and smaller atomic size."
          [2] "While under the oxidizing conditions, the strong O3d TMs interaction would induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, migrating further in the surface layer to form oxidized 3d TM islands."
          [3] "We find that Pt (1 1 1) with the atomic dispersed 3d TM in surface layers is highly active for CO oxidation via bi-functional mechanism."
          [4] "The interplay between structure and reaction environment as well as effect on the catalytic activity is highlighted."

[1] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [2] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "Under vacuum conditions, the surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [5] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [6] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [7] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [8] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces due to the low surface energy of most oxides."
          [9] "The reversible mass transport processes in response to changes between O2 and H2 contribute to the oscillations in surface structure and composition at PtNi nanoparticle systems."
          [10] "The similar reversible dynamic behaviors have been found in PtCu and PtCo nanoparticle catalysts supported HOPG."
          [11] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [12] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [13] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [14] "The surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [15] "The much larger atomic radius of Pt (1.39 A ) than those of Co (1.25 A ), Ni (1.24 A ), and Cu (1.28 A ) [32] contributes to the surface segregation process."
          [16] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [17] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [18] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [19] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces."
          [20] "The mass transport processes, which are active in the oxidation or reduction reactions, are fully reversible depending on the redox potential of the reaction gases."
          [21] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [22] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [23] "The reversible behavior can be more clearly demonstrated when plotting the ratio of Ni 2p to Pt 4f intensity with the oxidation and reduction experimental cycles."
          [24] "The reversible structure changes in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems are of great significance in many real catalytic processes."

[1] "Fe-Pt catalysts have also been used in the preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO in excess H2, and a high selectivity of approximately 100% for CO oxidation was ob- MA Teng et al. / Chinese Journal of Catalysis, 2010, 31: 2432"
          [2] "The Pt-skin structures also showed high activity for catalyzing the hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [13]."
          [3] "The unique catalytic properties of the Pt-skin surfaces were attributed to the modification of the electronic structure of the surface Pt by the subsurface Fe underneath, which influenced the adsorption and reaction characteristics of the surface species [14,15]."
          [4] "The controlled preparation of the various Fe-Pt surface structures enabled us to derive the rela- tionship between the structure and catalytic properties, which would help the design of high-performance and low-cost catalysts."

[1] "Surface segregation has been drawing much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science, catalysis and surface chemistry."
          [2] "The phenomenon is able to influence many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc."
          [3] "In particular, it has been found out that the catalytic activities of alloys can be significantly altered through surface segregation."
          [4] "Platinum-based alloys have been extensively studied as cathode catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR)."
          [5] "Compared to pure Pt, enhanced ORR activities were observed in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [6] "Remarkably, surface segregation was found closely related to the activity improvement."
          [7] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk alloy of Pt3Co and the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt-segregating on the topmost layer of the annealed surface."
          [8] "The ORR was uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the rate of reaction is four times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The unusual catalytic activity has intrigued many researchers and numerous experimental and computational studies have been carried out for the surface segregation of Pt alloys."
          [10] "For most of them, the endeavors focused on the understanding of the surface and subsurface structures and electronic properties under vacuum conditions."
          [11] "However, catalytic reactions such as the ORR are typically take place under operating environments with various adsorbates."
          [12] "The adsorbates can affect the surface segregation trend and even change the surface composition of the alloys in some cases."
          [13] "As the catalytic properties are primarily determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the surface composition of the alloys, studying the segregation trend of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is thus of great importance."

[1] "The stability of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys and the tendency for surface segregation of Pd and Pt subsurface guest metals in these surface alloys is studied by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and Auger electron spec- troscopy (AES)."
          [2] "Hence, the AES results confirm the findings of the STM mea- surements, with an (almost) complete restoration of the origi- nal surface alloy composition after Ru deposition and subse- quent re-alloying, indicative of (almost) complete segregation of the buried Pd (Pt) to the surface layer, and a slight loss of Pt during the re-alloying step."
          [3] "The slight differences in the stability of the surface alloy may be caused by the lower Pd content (44%) in the surface alloy compared to Pt (70%)."
          [4] "The preference for surface segregation of a metal atom dissolved in a host metal is related to the dif- ference in surface energies of the two species and the differ- ence of the two optimal nearest-neighbor distances of host and guest metal."
          [5] "The surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1) and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1),[6669] in good agreement with the ob- served tendency for segregation of Pt and Pd."
          [6] "Also the size mismatch of the larger guest metals Pt (0.277 nm) and Pd (0.275 nm) compared to the Ru(0001) single crystal (0.270 nm) would favor the inclusion of the impurity metals in the tensile stressed outermost Ru layer, providing additional driving force for surface segregation."
          [7] "The floating behavior was studied in detail by following the variation in the surface morphology and structure during a series of four preparation steps: 1) deposition of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001), 2) surface alloy formation by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s), 3) deposition of Ru on the sur- face alloy at 500 K, and 4) re-alloying by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s)."
          [8] "Based on these data, considering only exchange between the surface layer and the subsurface region consisting of the second (bulk dissolution inhibited) and using the annealing temperatures of 1350 K and 1150 K, respectively, the probability that a small amount of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001) is dissolved in the subsurface region (buried by a layer of substrate material) during surface alloy formation can be estimated by a simple Boltzmann ap- proach given by Equation (1):pbury  exp  DEseg kBT"
          [9] "The ob- servation of a distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on the Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) surface alloy at 500 K, in contrast to the layer-by-layer Ru growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) under similar growth conditions, may be attributed to the lower Pd content,the different 2D distribution of the components in the latter surface alloy with more Ru3 surface sites as compared to Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001), or to a less pronounced difference be- tween RuRu bonding and RuPd bonding."

[1] "Density functional theory is used to study oxygen adsorption and its effect on surface segregation in (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys."
          [2] "It is found that the most energetically favorable oxygen adsorption site is the bridge site over and parallel to the (100) step."
          [3] "Surface segregation phenomena is observed in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir and Pt/Co(core) systems."
          [4] "The Pt/Ir(core) structure was the only one, among the studied systems, that showed antisegregation behavior even in presence of oxygen adsorbed."
          [5] "For alloys, it has been reported that catalytic activity depends dramatically on how the atoms arrange in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface [912] and it is influenced by the surface segregation phenomenon."
          [6] "Therefore, it is important to characterize the surface atomic distribution of catalytic alloys and to elucidate the effect of segregation on surface structure."

[1] "The lower surface free energy of Au compared to Pt (1.13 (44, 45) vs 2.48 (46) J/m2) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when Au is deposited on top of Pt. The fact that Au and Pt are immiscible at Au compositions greater than 17% (47) also suggests that Au should remain on top of the Pt clusters."
          [2] "The adsorption of CO on the PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes the diffusion of Pt to the surface of the clusters, and this phenomena is most pronounced for the clusters that are initially pure Au at the surface."
          [3] "Density functional theory calculations demonstrate that it is thermodynamically favorable for Pt to diffuse to the cluster surface in order to bind to CO."
          [4] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites. Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [5] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [6] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites."
          [7] "Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [8] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are initially pure Au; this is presumably because the first step in the oxidation process is O2 dissociation, which requires neighboring Pt sites."

[1] "In this paper we will provide a review of our recent studies on the general stability of the Pt3dPt (3d = Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni) subsurface structures, which are the desirable structural configurations in several applications in heterogeneous catalysis and electrocatalysis."
          [2] "The DFT results predict that the Pt3dPt subsurface structures are stable in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen, while with adsorbed oxygen the 3d atoms should segregate to the surface to produce the 3dPtPt surface structures."
          [3] "The DFT predictions are verified experimentally on selected Pt3dPt(111) systems."
          [4] "The experimental efforts are further expanded by bridging the materials gap form single crystal Pt(111) to polycrystalline Pt to incorporate multiple crystal facets and to determine their effects on the kinetic barriers for the segregation of the subsurface 3d atoms."
          [5] "The Pt3dPt subsurface structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [6] "The PtNiPt system is predicted to be the most resistant to oxygen-induced segregation, having the highest activation barriers for the (111) and (100) crystal facets."
          [7] "The PtTiPt configuration is predicted to be the most susceptible to oxygen-induced segregation, having the lowest (100) activation barrier and an unactivated process on the (111) crystal facet."
          [8] "The results described in this review demonstrate the general trend in the stability of the Pt3dPt subsurface structures in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [9] "The trend is predicted from DFT calculations and verified experimentally on both single crystal Pt(111) and polycrystalline Pt foil."
          [10] "Using combined theoretical and experimental approaches, the relative stability of the surface and subsurface bimetallic structures can be quantified and general trends can be predicted."
          [11] "Furthermore, similar to the use of the individual d-band center values for the prediction of binding energies, the difference in the occupied d-band center, Δεd, can be used to screen potential bimetallic alloys with desirable stability in the environment of vacuum, hydrogen and oxygen."
          [12] "In order to further correlate DFT calculations with experimental results, a BrnstedEvansPolanyi relationship is derived to correlate thermodynamic stability from DFT calculations with kinetic barriers from experimental measurements for the Pt3dPt systems."
          [13] "Finally, empirical equations have been developed for predicting the thermodynamic stability of other bimetallic systems both in vacuum and with adsorbed hydrogen and oxygen."
          [14] "The large difference in the binding energies between the surface and subsurface structures demonstrates the need to understand the stability of these configurations in the reacting environment."
          [15] "As shown for the Pt3d bimetallic systems, the difference in the oxygen binding energy of oxygen for these two configurations is on the order of hundreds of kcal/mol."
          [16] "Based on Sabatiers principle, this would suggest that if a subsurface alloy structure exhibited the optimal binding properties (as for dehydrogenation and ORR), the surface structure would likely lead to intermediates bound too strongly and halt the reaction."
          [17] "Conversely, if the surface alloy structure were found to exhibit the optimal binding properties (as for steam reforming), the subsurface structure would be predicted to bind adsorbates too weakly and prevent the reaction from proceeding."
          [18] "The stability of the bimetallic structures has been considered with a number of atomic species, which can be extended to more complex adsorbates using scaling relationships."
          [19] "The DFT results in Fig. 2 predict that the subsurface PtMPt(111) configuration is preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, while the surface MPtPt(111) configuration is predicted to be preferred with 0.5 ML O."
          [20] "The DFT results predict that the surface 3dPtPt(111) configuration is thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed oxygen."
          [21] "Parallel with the predictions from DFT, experimental measurements have been performed to verify the predicted segregation of subsurface 3d atoms in the presence of oxygen, as well as to quantify the activation barrier for the adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [22] "The AES results suggest that there are two regions of segregation."
          [23] "The similar segregation behavior in Figs. 7 and 8 reveals that DFT predictions and experimental measurements on single crystal bimetallic surfaces are applicable to polycrystalline substrate, bridging the materials gap."
          [24] "The results from this prediction are shown in Fig. 9, where the left axis is the heat of reaction and the right axis is scaled to show the corresponding BEP activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation for each Pt3dPt subsurface structure."
          [25] "Comparing these bimetallic systems, all the Pt3dPt(100) structures are predicted to have a higher activation barrier for oxygen-induced segregation compared to the respective Pt3dPt(111) configuration."
          [26] "The linear trends in Fig. 10 for all the systems show that the correlation of thermodynamic stability with the difference in d-band center can be used beyond the Pt3d alloys."
          [27] "The main modification of switching the admetal/host component is to shift the absolute driving potential of the segregation."
          [28] "This general stability trend predicts that all the bimetallic systems in Fig. 10 have the same thermodynamically preferred bimetallic configuration in each environment, with the subsurface configuration being preferred in vacuum and with 0.5 ML H, and the surface configuration being favored with 0.5 ML O."



[1] "The formation of a Pt skin layer with predominantly (111)-oriented facets induced by dissolution of Fe atoms in a PtFe alloy for fuel cell applications is investigated for the first time by using in situ electrochemical STM in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [2] "While electrochemical and other surface analysis techniques such as XPS, AES and EXAFS have been extensively used in the study of thin solid films, the information obtained from these methods is esssentially macroscopic and does not provide direct atomic-scale models for the film structures."
          [3] "In this paper, we report an in situ STM study of a PtFe film in 0.1 M HClO4 solution."
          [4] "The small peak at 0.71 V indicated by an arrow is assigned to the Fe2+/Fe3+ redox process.13 However, the peak decreased with each additional potential cycle and finally disappeared, resulting in a steady CV. This result shows that the potential cycles lead to increased dissolution of Fe and the rearrangement of Pt at the surface and formation of a Pt skin layer, protecting the underlying PtFe alloy from corrosion."
          [5] "The present result will shed new insight for electrode material study in fuel cells. Further studies on the Pt skin layer formed on the PtFe alloy electrode, such as the adsorption and oxidation of CO, are now in progress by using STM from the viewpoint of electrocatalysis."



[1] "Platinum has become the most popular cathode electrocatalyst in polymer electrode membrane (PEM) fuel cells. However, its relatively sluggish kinetics for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) significantly limits the catalytic efficiency."
          [2] "In recent years, Pt-based alloys, composed of Pt and other transition metals, have been extensively investigated (1-7) owing to their enhanced ORR activity."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process."
          [4] "A pure Pt-skin is formed in the outmost layer of the alloys due to surface segregation of Pt atoms."
          [5] "The enhanced stability of Pt-based catalysts is also closely related to surface segregation."
          [6] "Au shows strong surface segregation in PtAu alloys, (29, 30) whereas Co is usually unable to enrich PtCo alloy surfaces. (16, 17)"
          [7] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface. The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [8] "This leads to the conclusion that Au surface segregation is thermodynamically favorable, consistent with previous studies. (26, 28-30)"
          [9] "For the PtCo alloy, the conversion from 2 to 1 has an energy barrier of 0.63 eV, much lower than that of the competitive step from 3 to 4 (1.15 eV), suggesting the surface Co atoms have a stronger tendency to migrate to the second layer compared to the Pt atoms."
          [10] "Accordingly, structure 4 most likely will not be formed, and thus the continuous segregation of Co cannot be reached."
          [11] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."
          [12] "Surface segregation has been found to play a key role in the process. For example, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloys and on Pt-skin structures produced by Pt segregating to the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on Pt-skin surfaces and the reaction rate is four times that of the pure Pt catalyst."
          [13] "Owing to the importance of surface segregation for Pt-based alloys, numerous studies have been carried out using modern experimental and computational techniques."
          [14] "For many Pt alloy systems, segregation trends have been unambiguously identified, and the components of surface and subsurface regions have successfully been characterized."
          [15] "The dissolution of metal atoms results in some defects on the alloy surface, which are critical to the rearrangement process."
          [16] "The phenomenon can also be observed in acidic solution, often with dissolution of the alloyed metal and rearrangement of Pt atoms."
          [17] "The segregation process thus includes interlayer migration of the impurity atom, vacancy movement at the second layer, and vacancy regeneration at the surface layer."
          [18] "Our segregation model can successfully interpret these phenomena, particularly, from a kinetics viewpoint."
          [19] "The pathway from 1 to 4 describes a complete cycle in which an impurity atom in the second layer segregates to the Pt(111) surface."
          [20] "The process is exothermic (0.57 eV) for the PtAu system, whereas it is endothermic (0.45 eV) for the PtCo system."
          [21] "Therefore, Co segregating to the clean Pt(111) surface is both thermodynamically unfavorable and kinetically prohibitive according to our model."





[1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "Since the catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "In this paper, we chose the well-investigated Pt3M(1 1 1) (M = Ag, Au, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Ir, Mn, Mo, Ni, Pd, Re, Rh, Ru, Ti, V) alloy systems."
          [11] "Our calculations show that surface segregation is determined not only by atomic size and magnitude of the surface energy but also by the subsurface atomic structure."
          [12] "Notably, we have found that a correlation between the Pt surface segregation trend and the displacement of the metal M out of the alloy surface. Such displacement can effectively predict surface segregation regardless of the subsurface segregation structures."
          [13] "The interlayer distance is also found to be correlated with the segregation energy."
          [14] "Furthermore, this study reveals that the surface geometry is not responsible for the enhanced ORR activity of the Pt-skin surfaces for Pt3Ni(1 1 1) and Pt3Co(1 1 1); instead the modified electronic structure should plays a key role for the catalytic reactions."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The enhanced activities can be attributed to two critical factors: the surface electronic structure and the surface bond length of alloy systems."
          [10] "The surface geometry has been argued to be able to considerably alter the catalytic efficiency."
          [11] "For each non-segregated alloy, the surface metal bond length varies narrowly (up to 0.12 Å)."
          [12] "The surface geometry for the Pt-segregated structures is found to be close to the non-segregated geometry, although the M atoms are all replaced by Pt atoms."
          [13] "For the well-studied Pt3Co (1 1 1) and Pt3Ni (1 1 1) systems, the maximum deviation of the surface bond length is only 0.002 Å after Pt segregation."
          [14] "Therefore, the geometric effect does not contribute to the enhanced ORR activities of Pt-skin surfaces; instead the electronic structures modified through surface segregation should be the main factor for such enhancement."
          [1] "For many alloys, the chemical composition at the surface is significantly different from that in the bulk. In general, one metal species enriches the surface or the first sub-surface layers over other components. The phenomenon called surface segregation has drawn much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science and surface chemistry."
          [2] "It influences many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc. Particularly, it has been found that the catalytic activities of alloys can be altered dramatically through surface segregation."
          [3] "As an efficient catalyst, Pt is used in many important chemical reactions such as methanol oxidation and hydrocarbon reforming. In particular, Pt has become the most widely used electrocatalyst for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cells."
          [4] "For many years, numerous efforts to search alternative catalysts to Pt have mainly focused on Pt-based bimetallic alloys, in which some of the platinum is replaced by less expensive metals."
          [5] "The catalytic properties are chiefly determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the chemical composition of the bimetallic alloys, the catalytic effect can be considerably improved when appropriate structures are achieved."
          [6] "Enhanced ORR activities have been reported in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [7] "Notably, surface segregation plays a key role in the ORR."
          [8] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk Pt3Co alloy and on the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt segregating on the outmost layer of the annealed alloy surface. They noted that the ORR is uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the reaction rate is 4 times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "Theoretical approaches can help to elucidate the driving force and the tendency of this phenomenon."
          [10] "Surface segregation is also governed by temperature and by the presence of adsorbates."



Ternary alloys exhibit a strong Pt surface segregation tendency leading to the formation of a Pt monolayer (ML) on their surfaces. The presence of such top Pt ML induces relatively weaker binding strengths of O and OH in the ternary alloys, suggesting further activity enhancement for the ORR compared to the corresponding bimetallic alloy surfaces. Moreover, the Pt-skin surfaces of and show an enhanced electrochemical stability with respect to the dissolution of Pt atoms from the alloy surface.

[1] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [2] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [3] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [4] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [5] "We find that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface)."
          [6] "In the upper right and lower left quadrants, the parity line divides segregating from non-segregating regions."
          [7] "We have confirmed that this simple technique reliably predicts segregation behaviour in the presence of hydrogen, although there may be exceptions in cases where Eseg and BEHsol  BEHhost are within 0.1 eV of one another."
          [8] "In general, Fig. 1 suggests that hydrogen will not induce surface segregation for most solute/host transition metal pairs, at least at low temperatures and pressures."
          [9] "The range of BEs of oxygen, sulphur and CO across the pure transition metals is larger than is the corresponding range for hydrogen (the range of BE between Au and Ru, for example, is 0.75 eV for H, 1.87 eV for CO, 2.25 eV for S and 2.70 eV for O), so these species will generally have larger thermodynamic driving forces for adsorbate-induced segregation."
          [10] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [11] "In some cases, a portion of the solute in a subsurface alloy may segregate more deeply into the host."
          [12] "In other cases, the total coverage of solute in the surface region may differ from one monolayer, leading to different types of subsurface alloy structures26."
          [13] "In still other situations, arrangements of atoms with unusual periodicity (or even no periodicity at all) may permit the formation of defects or long-range reconstructions27,28."
          [14] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below."
          [15] "However, the deviations from the idealized cases do have a quantitative effect on the properties of adsorbates on these NSAs."
          [16] "Thus, to benefit fully from the unique catalytic properties of NSAs, more precise control of metal catalyst surface structure will be needed, perhaps through improved nanofabrication techniques."
          [17] "Recent innovations in atomic layer deposition and in nanoparticle fabrication technologies for metals suggest that practical nanofabrication strategies for metals may not be far off29,30,31."
          [18] "Some of these NSAs bind atomic hydrogen (H) as weakly as the noble metals (Cu, Au) while, at the same time, dissociating H2 much more easily."
          [19] "Hydrogen chemistry on NSAs is of particular interest, as this element has so important a role in many chemical12,13 and pharmaceutical14 processes."
          [20] "To develop new NSAs for such processes, we use periodic, self-consistent density functional theory calculations that have shown considerable predictive power for catalysis20."
          [21] "We find, however, that selected NSAs offer an exciting exception to this rule by simultaneously allowing weak H binding and low H2 dissociation barriers."
          [22] "The lowering of the transition-state energy is observed even on non-ideal NSAs although the effect is less pronounced."
          [23] "Accordingly, NSAs promise high hydrogenation activity at low temperatures."
          [24] "This new class of near-surface alloys could thus assist in highly selective hydrogenation reactions at low temperatures, of particular interest for the production of chiral pharmaceutical compounds, and could, potentially, permit easier separation and storage of hydrogen."
          [25] "The stability can be assessed using a simple, two-step procedure, first considering the composition in vacuum, and then accounting for the effects of hydrogen adsorption."
          [26] "In general, adsorbates can draw to the surface components of alloys to which they bind strongly."
          [27] "We have found that a reliable estimate of the tendency of hydrogen to induce surface segregation can be made by comparing Eseg of the solute to the difference in the magnitudes of the hydrogen binding energies between the pure solute and the pure host (BEHsol  BEHhost, where BEH is the energy change when atomic hydrogen is adsorbed from the gas phase onto the metal surface; see Fig. 1)."
          [28] "Real NSAs may, nonetheless, differ in certain ways from our idealized NSA models."
          [29] "We have found that these possible deviations from our idealized NSA structures do not substantially affect the main trends in adsorbate behaviour presented below (some experimental studies have already shown significantly modified catalytic activity, along the lines of our theoretical predictions, even on non-ideal NSAs10,11)."



[1] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,34, and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [2] "By contrast, in the presence of adsorbed O atoms the Pt removal is facilitated, because the surface vacancy can be more strongly stabilized by O atoms compared to the initial perfect surface."
          [3] "This can be understood as follows. Firstly, the Pt atoms at the surface vacancy are less coordinated and possess more active d-states, which can more strongly bond with O atoms, compared to terrace Pt atoms."
          [4] "Secondly, with the exposure of the second layer atoms at the surface vacancy, it is possible to form a much stronger OM bond compared to the OPt bond."
          [5] "This is indeed observed in our search for the optimum structure after a Pt removal, which shows that the surface vacancy is preferentially terminated by O atoms that sink to bond with the solute M atoms at the second layer."
          [6] "For example, in Pt2Ti skin alloys, the surface vacancies with a configuration containing OTi bonding are much more stable (by 1.44 eV) than those with only OPt bonding."
          [7] "This is consistent with the fact that the atomic O on metals is anion-like, with a strong tendency to accept electrons, and prefers to form ionic-bonds."
          [8] "By analyzing a large set of Pt alloys, we show that alloys are in general less stable than Pt at the same O coverage under electrochemical conditions, and that maintaining a zero O coverage at the working potentials (e.g. 0.9 V) is key to achieve both high activity and stability."
          [9] "From more than 20 different Pt2M alloys, we identify Mo as a good element, which can alloy with Pt to make a stable surface at high electrochemical potentials."
          [10] "We further show that Pt2Mo possesses a lower kinetic barrier for OR compared to Pt, and the barrier towards OOH dissociation is a key kinetic parameter for OR activity."
          [11] "The higher stability of clean alloy surfaces can indeed be inferred by the calculated Pt d-band structure, which shows that the alloying generally leads to the stabilization of the Pt d-band,8b,33,34 and therefore the surface Pt atoms are more difficult to segregate or dissolve."
          [12] "The results imply that the stability of even skin alloys under electrochemical conditions could be a severe problem for the long-term operation of cathodes, without even mentioning the activity."
          [13] "Theoretically, the thermodynamic equilibrium O coverage under electrochemical potentials can be determined by constructing the surface phase diagram."
          [14] "It reveals that up to the high potential 1.05 V, only Pt2Mo exhibits a higher stability than pure Pt."
          [15] "The ORR on a Pt2Mo alloy surface follows a similar reaction profile as that on Pt, as shown in Fig. 3."
          [16] "We can see that the O/OH (ΔG1 + ΔG3 in Fig. 3) and molecular O2 (ΔG1) bind more strongly on the O-covered Pt surface, while the free energy of the OOH state (ΔG1 + ΔG2) and the TS for OOH dissociation (ΔG + ΔG1) are similar for Pt2Mo and Pt."
          [17] "The overall barrier ΔG is about 0.2 eV lower on Pt2Mo than that on Pt, due to the reduced O2adsorption on the skin alloy surface."
          [18] "The aqueous environment, together with the in situ O coverage, plays an important role in facilitating the ORR on alloy surfaces."
          [19] "The optimum content of Mo in PtxMo skin alloy is 30%."
          [20] "Therefore, we can conclude that the Pt2Mo skin alloy achieves the best balance of stability and activity."
          [21] "A low Mo content (below 30% e.g.Pt5Mo) may achieve a higher stability at high potentials but the activity is not better than Pt at 0.9 V, whilst a high Mo content (above 30%, e.g.PtMo) will start to destabilize the alloy and also reduce the activity."

Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component Klas J. AnderssonFederico Calle-VallejoJan RossmeislIb Chorkendorff* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF Abstract Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbate), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
The bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer, (15) alleviating possible CO-poisoning problems.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, (15) the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
The calculations also show weakening of the PtCO bond with increasing Cu content in the second layer.
The results with adsorbed CO in Table 1 can explain the θCu > 2/3 ML onset of bulk migration of Cu indicated by our XPS data.
In comparison with the θCu = 2/3 ML case, situations with higher Cu content in the top two layers are significantly less stable, leading to a significant Cu bulk migration driving force.
The interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K, (17) and this is also approximately where both the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur (see Figure 2).
In forming the SA from the NSA, the interdiffusion mobility allows for Cu migration events to the first layer, and this Cu can then be trapped in the new low-energy SA configuration with CO adsorbed.
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
An important consequence of our results is that they add to the promise of using molecular adsorbate-induced surface changes as a tool for selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces.
In view of the earlier indications of increased Pt-group metal bonding to CO when Cu or Ag is present in the first layer with a Pt-group metal, (19-22) our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Adsorption-Driven Surface Segregation of the Less Reactive Alloy Component
we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure
the drastically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys,
the bonding of adsorbates may induce changes in local atomic composition and surface structure, changing the activity and selectivity of the catalyst.
The CuPt NSA was recently suggested as a promising water-gas shift (CO + H2O  H2 + CO2) catalyst because of reduced PtCO bonding on a Pt catalyst surface with Cu present in the second layer,
The NSA is unstable at elevated CO pressures and sample temperatures, forming instead a self-organized CO/CuPt SA structure.
The results are confirmed by extended DFT calculations.
Although Cu diffusion to the first layer is endothermic, the observed drastic increase in CO binding energy more than compensates for the endothermicity.
the vastly increased PtCO bond strength when 2/3 ML of Cu is present in the first layer.
the calculated higher stability of the CuPt SA compared with Cu in the bulk with CO adsorption on clean Pt(111) is nearly equal to the free-energy difference (ΔG).
the interdiffusion of Cu and Pt becomes significant at 460 K,
the formation and breakup of the stable CO-induced surface alloy start to occur
DFT calculations reproduce the experimental observations and confirm that the vastly increased PtCO binding energy with 2/3 ML of Cu in the first layer of Pt rationalizes the observed Cu surface segregation.
our results for the CuPt system at elevated temperatures and CO pressures, where a novel stable CO-induced surface alloy forms, likely extend to a wide variety of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the radically stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.
Counterintuitive to expectations and all prior observations of adsorbate-induced surface segregation of the more reactive alloy component (the one forming the stronger bond with the adsorbates), we show that CO adsorption at elevated pressures and temperatures pulls the less reactive Cu to the surface of a CuPt near-surface alloy.
The Cu surface segregation is driven by the formation of a stable self-organized CO/CuPt surface alloy structure and is rationalized in terms of the significantly stronger PtCO bond when Cu is present in the first surface layer of Pt.
The results, which are expected to apply to a range of coinage (Cu, Ag)/Pt-group bimetallic surface alloys, open up new possibilities in selective and dynamical engineering of alloy surfaces for catalysis.

Thermodynamics and kinetics of oxygen-induced segregation of 3 d metals in Pt
          DFT calculations of Pt3dPt (111) and Pt3dPt (100)
          Predicted stability of subsurface 3d metal in Pt(111) and Pt(100) in oxygen
          Effect of crystal plane on subsurface stability
          Predicted effect of crystal plane on ORR activity

[1] "Compared with monometallic catalysts, bimetallic catalysts have more surface structural complexity, where the second metalin either the metallic or the oxidized statecan be exposed on the surface,in the near surface region, or embedded in bulk region. It has been demonstrated that the surface structure of the bimetallic catalyst is critical to their catalytic properties."
          [2] "For example, Pt- based bimetallic catalysts consisting of Pt-skin surfaces with 3d transition metals at the subsurface region present super catalytic performances in many reactions compared to the pure Pt surface."
          [3] "The structure of a catalyst surface often changes dynamically during reactions. For example, reversible surface processes such as wettingdewetting and sintering dispersion have been observed in monometallic catalyst sys- tems when the gaseous environment changes between reduc- tive and oxidative conditions."
          [4] "The bimetallic catalysts may show similar dependence of surface structure on the redox po- tential of reaction gases, which offers eventually the opportu- nity to tune the catalytic activity and selectivity."

[1] "One of the most critical questions in bimetallic catalysis is the stability of bimetallic surface structures under reaction conditions, which would in turn modify the catalytic properties."
          [2] "the monolayer surface Ni atoms diffuse into the subsurface region of Pt(111) upon annealing, indicating that the subsurface PtNiPt(111) structure is thermodynamically more stable than the surface NiPtPt(111) structure in vacuum, i.e., without adsorbates."
          [3] "Several other investigations of Pt3d alloys in fuel cell applications have suggested that the alloy films used in these studies are covered by a Pt skin, (195-197) again indicating the thermodynamic preference of Pt-terminated bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "If Eseg is sufficiently negative, the admetal segregates to the surface to produce the MHH surface monolayer structure. If Eseg is sufficiently positive, the surface layer is the host metal, leading to the formation of the HMH subsurface monolayer structure."
          [5] "the thermodynamic driving force of hydrogen-induced segregation was related to two terms: the value of Eseg and the difference between the hydrogen-binding energies on the surface and subsurface structures."
          [6] "Because hydrogen binds relatively weakly to most transition metals, only a few bimetallic surfaces experience a hydrogen-induced segregation of the subsurface admetals."
          [7] "the subsurface configuration remains thermodynamically preferred with adsorbed hydrogen. However, the subsurface structure is no longer stable in the presence of 0.5 ML atomic oxygen, indicating a thermodynamic driving potential for the subsurface 3d metals to segregate to the surface."
          [8] "An adsorbate with a weak Pauling electronegativity, such as H, S, Se, or C, binds weakly with both surface and subsurface configurations and provides only a small shift in the thermodynamic potential for interchanging the configuration."
          [9] "An adsorbate with a strong Pauling electronegativity, such as N or O, produces a large difference in binding energy between the two configurations. When the surface coverage of N or O is high enough, this difference outweighs the thermodynamic potential for retaining the subsurface configuration in vacuum."
          [10] "The oxygen-induced surface segregation is also predicted for the (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys by Callejas-Tovar and Balbuena."

[1] "Under reductive conditions (vacuum and CO), 3d TM prefers to occupy in the subsurface layer due to its higher surface energy and smaller atomic size."
          [2] "While under the oxidizing conditions, the strong O3d TMs interaction would induce 3d TM segregation to the surface, migrating further in the surface layer to form oxidized 3d TM islands."
          [3] "We find that Pt (1 1 1) with the atomic dispersed 3d TM in surface layers is highly active for CO oxidation via bi-functional mechanism."
          [4] "The interplay between structure and reaction environment as well as effect on the catalytic activity is highlighted."

[1] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [2] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [3] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [4] "Under vacuum conditions, the surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [5] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [6] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [7] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [8] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces due to the low surface energy of most oxides."
          [9] "The reversible mass transport processes in response to changes between O2 and H2 contribute to the oscillations in surface structure and composition at PtNi nanoparticle systems."
          [10] "The similar reversible dynamic behaviors have been found in PtCu and PtCo nanoparticle catalysts supported HOPG."
          [11] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [12] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [13] "Surface segregation has been often observed in many bimetallic surfaces."
          [14] "The surface segregation of a metal with larger atomic radius is preferred in order to release strain at the bimetallic surface."
          [15] "The much larger atomic radius of Pt (1.39 A ) than those of Co (1.25 A ), Ni (1.24 A ), and Cu (1.28 A ) [32] contributes to the surface segregation process."
          [16] "Since hydrogen bonds weakly to most 3d transition metals, presence of H2 will not change the thermodynamic driving force for the surface segregation process."
          [17] "Adsorption of oxygen on Pt M catalyst surfaces could induce segregation of 3d transition metals onto the top surface owing to strong bonding between oxygen and 3d transition metals."
          [18] "The 3d transition metals may become oxidized in the oxidative environments."
          [19] "The formed 3d transition metal oxides tend to encapsulate Pt surfaces."
          [20] "The mass transport processes, which are active in the oxidation or reduction reactions, are fully reversible depending on the redox potential of the reaction gases."
          [21] "The surface structures of PtNi, as well as PtCo and PtCu bimetallic catalysts show reversible changes with the redox potential of the environmental gas."
          [22] "The results illustrate that the surface structure of bimetallic catalysts can be tuned via treatments in various gases."
          [23] "The reversible behavior can be more clearly demonstrated when plotting the ratio of Ni 2p to Pt 4f intensity with the oxidation and reduction experimental cycles."
          [24] "The reversible structure changes in Pt-based bimetallic catalyst systems are of great significance in many real catalytic processes."

[1] "Fe-Pt catalysts have also been used in the preferential oxidation (PROX) of CO in excess H2, and a high selectivity of approximately 100% for CO oxidation was ob- MA Teng et al. / Chinese Journal of Catalysis, 2010, 31: 2432"
          [2] "The Pt-skin structures also showed high activity for catalyzing the hydrogenation of unsaturated hydrocarbons [13]."
          [3] "The unique catalytic properties of the Pt-skin surfaces were attributed to the modification of the electronic structure of the surface Pt by the subsurface Fe underneath, which influenced the adsorption and reaction characteristics of the surface species [14,15]."
          [4] "The controlled preparation of the various Fe-Pt surface structures enabled us to derive the rela- tionship between the structure and catalytic properties, which would help the design of high-performance and low-cost catalysts."

[1] "Surface segregation has been drawing much experimental and theoretical attention due to its importance to materials science, catalysis and surface chemistry."
          [2] "The phenomenon is able to influence many important physical and chemical properties such as permeation, surface adsorption, crystal growth, metal corrosion, etc."
          [3] "In particular, it has been found out that the catalytic activities of alloys can be significantly altered through surface segregation."
          [4] "Platinum-based alloys have been extensively studied as cathode catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR)."
          [5] "Compared to pure Pt, enhanced ORR activities were observed in the case of Pt alloyed with 3d metals."
          [6] "Remarkably, surface segregation was found closely related to the activity improvement."
          [7] "For instance, Stamenkovic et al. compared the kinetics of the ORR on bulk alloy of Pt3Co and the Pt-skin structure produced by Pt-segregating on the topmost layer of the annealed surface."
          [8] "The ORR was uniquely active on the Pt-skin surface and the rate of reaction is four times that for the pure Pt catalyst."
          [9] "The unusual catalytic activity has intrigued many researchers and numerous experimental and computational studies have been carried out for the surface segregation of Pt alloys."
          [10] "For most of them, the endeavors focused on the understanding of the surface and subsurface structures and electronic properties under vacuum conditions."
          [11] "However, catalytic reactions such as the ORR are typically take place under operating environments with various adsorbates."
          [12] "The adsorbates can affect the surface segregation trend and even change the surface composition of the alloys in some cases."
          [13] "As the catalytic properties are primarily determined by the surface geometry and the electronic structure which can be modified by the surface composition of the alloys, studying the segregation trend of Pt-based alloys under surface adsorption is thus of great importance."

[1] "The stability of PdRu/Ru(0001) and PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys and the tendency for surface segregation of Pd and Pt subsurface guest metals in these surface alloys is studied by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and Auger electron spec- troscopy (AES)."
          [2] "Hence, the AES results confirm the findings of the STM mea- surements, with an (almost) complete restoration of the origi- nal surface alloy composition after Ru deposition and subse- quent re-alloying, indicative of (almost) complete segregation of the buried Pd (Pt) to the surface layer, and a slight loss of Pt during the re-alloying step."
          [3] "The slight differences in the stability of the surface alloy may be caused by the lower Pd content (44%) in the surface alloy compared to Pt (70%)."
          [4] "The preference for surface segregation of a metal atom dissolved in a host metal is related to the dif- ference in surface energies of the two species and the differ- ence of the two optimal nearest-neighbor distances of host and guest metal."
          [5] "The surface energies decrease in the order Ru(0001) (1.31.6 eVatom1), Pt(111) (1 eVatom1) and Pd(111) (0.8 eVatom1),[6669] in good agreement with the ob- served tendency for segregation of Pt and Pd."
          [6] "Also the size mismatch of the larger guest metals Pt (0.277 nm) and Pd (0.275 nm) compared to the Ru(0001) single crystal (0.270 nm) would favor the inclusion of the impurity metals in the tensile stressed outermost Ru layer, providing additional driving force for surface segregation."
          [7] "The floating behavior was studied in detail by following the variation in the surface morphology and structure during a series of four preparation steps: 1) deposition of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001), 2) surface alloy formation by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s), 3) deposition of Ru on the sur- face alloy at 500 K, and 4) re-alloying by annealing to 1350 K (annealing at 1150 K for 10 s)."
          [8] "Based on these data, considering only exchange between the surface layer and the subsurface region consisting of the second (bulk dissolution inhibited) and using the annealing temperatures of 1350 K and 1150 K, respectively, the probability that a small amount of Pt (Pd) on Ru(0001) is dissolved in the subsurface region (buried by a layer of substrate material) during surface alloy formation can be estimated by a simple Boltzmann ap- proach given by Equation (1):pbury  exp  DEseg kBT"
          [9] "The ob- servation of a distinct bilayer island growth of Ru on the Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001) surface alloy at 500 K, in contrast to the layer-by-layer Ru growth on Pd0.44Ru0.56/Ru(0001) under similar growth conditions, may be attributed to the lower Pd content,the different 2D distribution of the components in the latter surface alloy with more Ru3 surface sites as compared to Pt0.70Ru0.30/Ru(0001), or to a less pronounced difference be- tween RuRu bonding and RuPd bonding."

[1] "Density functional theory is used to study oxygen adsorption and its effect on surface segregation in (211) surfaces of Pt(shell)/M(core) and Pt3M (M = Co, Ir) alloys."
          [2] "It is found that the most energetically favorable oxygen adsorption site is the bridge site over and parallel to the (100) step."
          [3] "Surface segregation phenomena is observed in Pt3Co, Pt3Ir and Pt/Co(core) systems."
          [4] "The Pt/Ir(core) structure was the only one, among the studied systems, that showed antisegregation behavior even in presence of oxygen adsorbed."
          [5] "For alloys, it has been reported that catalytic activity depends dramatically on how the atoms arrange in the first 23 layers of the catalyst surface [912] and it is influenced by the surface segregation phenomenon."
          [6] "Therefore, it is important to characterize the surface atomic distribution of catalytic alloys and to elucidate the effect of segregation on surface structure."

[1] "The lower surface free energy of Au compared to Pt (1.13 (44, 45) vs 2.48 (46) J/m2) makes it energetically favorable for Au to remain at the surface when Au is deposited on top of Pt. The fact that Au and Pt are immiscible at Au compositions greater than 17% (47) also suggests that Au should remain on top of the Pt clusters."
          [2] "The adsorption of CO on the PtAu clusters at room temperature promotes the diffusion of Pt to the surface of the clusters, and this phenomena is most pronounced for the clusters that are initially pure Au at the surface."
          [3] "Density functional theory calculations demonstrate that it is thermodynamically favorable for Pt to diffuse to the cluster surface in order to bind to CO."
          [4] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites. Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [5] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [6] "For CO oxidation, the first step in the reaction is the dissociation of O2 at Pt sites."
          [7] "Since this process requires more than one contiguous Pt site, it is not surprising that O2 dissociation cannot occur on the PtAu clusters that are 100% Au at the surface before CO exposure, given the low probability for ensembles of Pt sites to form at the surface."
          [8] "In contrast, CO oxidation does not occur at the cluster surfaces that are initially pure Au; this is presumably because the first step in the oxidation process is O2 dissociation, which requires neighboring Pt sites."

