I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


CH bond activation in light alkanes: a theoretical perspective Alkanes are the major constituents of natural gas and crude oil, the feedstocks for the chemical industry. The efficient and selective activation of CH bonds can convert abundant and low-cost hydrocarbon feedstocks into value-added products. Due to the increasing global demand for light alkenes and their corresponding polymers as well as synthesis gas and hydrogen production, CH bond activation of light alkanes has attracted widespread attention. A theoretical understanding of CH bond activation in light hydrocarbons via density functional theory (DFT) and microkinetic modeling provides a feasible approach to gain insight into the process and guidelines for designing more efficient catalysts to promote light alkane transformation. This review describes the recent progress in computational catalysis that has addressed the CH bond activation of light alkanes. We start with direct and oxidative CH bond activation of methane, with emphasis placed on kinetic and mechanistic insights obtained from DFT assisted microkinetic analysis into steam and dry reforming, and the partial oxidation dependence on metal/oxide surfaces and nanoparticle size. Direct and oxidative activation of the CH bond of ethane and propane on various metal and oxide surfaces are subsequently reviewed, including the elucidation of active sites, intriguing mechanisms, microkinetic modeling, and electronic features of the ethane and propane conversion processes with a focus on suppressing the side reaction and coke formation. The main target of this review is to give fundamental insight into CH bond activation of light alkanes, which can provide useful guidance for the optimization of catalysts in future research.
Yalan Wang Yalan Wang obtained her bachelor's degree (2011) and master's degree (2014) from East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST). She received her PhD from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) in 2019, where she is currently working as a postdoctoral fellow. Her main research interests include methane activation, CO hydrogenation, electrochemical CO2 reduction, and redox reaction cycles. She has strong expertise in density functional theory calculations and descriptor-based microkinetic modeling for rational design of catalysts in heterogenous catalysis.Ping Hu Ping Hu is currently a PhD student in the School of Chemical Engineering at East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST). She studied Chemical Engineering at Shanghai Normal University (SHNU) and graduated with an MSc in 2015. Her current research interest is to combine density functional theory calculations and microkinetic analysis to examine the kinetics of propane dehydrogenation and search for better catalysts.Jia Yang Jia Yang (born in 1983) is associate professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU). She received her PhD in Heterogeneous Catalysts from NTNU in 2011. She carried out postdoctoral research in the same field and then worked as a research scientist in SINTEF for three years before joining the Department in 2016. Her main research interests include FischerTropsch synthesis, biomass conversion to fuels and chemicals, electrochemical CO2 reduction, fuel cell catalysts, and photocatalytic H2 generation. She has strong expertise in mechanistic investigation with Steady-State Isotopic Transient Kinetic Analysis (SSITKA) and isotopically labelled gases.Yi-An Zhu Yi-An Zhu received his PhD from East China University of Science and Technology (ECUST) in 2007, where he is now Professor of Chemical Engineering. His research interest is focused on the kinetics and mechanisms of heterogeneous catalytic reactions over solid-state catalysts. His current research projects include descriptor-based microkinetic analysis combined with results from density functional theory calculations for rational catalyst design and molecular simulations based on classical and reactive force fields for determination of structures of complex solids.De Chen De Chen (born in 1962) has been a Full Professor in catalysis in the Department of Chemical Engineering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), since 2001. He holds a PhD in industrial catalysis at NTNU (1998). His scientific activity is mainly devoted to mechanistic and kinetic studies of heterogenous catalysis, multiscale modeling of catalytic processes for the conversion of various resources such as natural gas, biomass and plastic waste, and CO2 capture technologies. He developed new research methods to study dynamic redox reaction cycles in industrial catalytic processes by combining first-principles calculation and operando kinetic study.
1. Introduction
Alkanes or paraffins (CnH2n+2) are acyclic saturated hydrocarbons and are the major constituents of natural gas and crude oil. Alkanes have the simplest structure among organic molecules, where each carbon atom is sp3-hybridized with four sigma bonds (either CC or CH), and each hydrogen atom joins to one of the carbon atoms (in a CH bond). The efficient and selective activation of CH bonds can directly convert abundant and low-cost hydrocarbon feedstocks into value-added products as commodity, intermediate, and fine chemicals, which have the potential to have a substantial economic impact. However, there is a formidable challenge for the sufficient activation of CH bonds in alkanes into more sophisticated value-added architectures due to the thermodynamically strong CH bonds and thus a high energy barrier to break the bonds. The bond strength of CH bonds depends slightly on the structure, and the bond dissociation energies (BDEs) of the primary (1), secondary (2), and tertiary (3) C sp3H bonds of alkanes fall in the range of 4.16 to 4.38 eV, with the 1 CH bonds being stronger than the 2 and 3 bonds.1 Methane molecules, as the main constituent of natural gas, have four primary CH bonds which are highly stable and thus are the most difficult to activate. Moreover, the CH bonds of alkanes functionalized products (such as alkenes and oxygenates) are not as stable as alkanes, which presents a challenge for gaining a high selectivity in alkane conversions.
Catalysts play a privileged role in selective CH bond activation and controlling the reaction pathways to improve the selectivity and lower the carbon footprint. Many catalytic routes have been developed to convert alkanes to high value-added chemicals, which form the technological foundation of the modern chemical industry and meet the demand of certain substances in a transition from petroleum to natural gas and shale gas and liquids. The global demand for light alkenes has increased due to the increasing demand of their corresponding polymers. The light olefin market across the globe is expected to reach USD 475.8 million at a compound annual growth rate of 5.85% by the end of 2027. Besides, with a shift of the feedstock from naphtha to natural gas feedstocks, the supply of certain chemicals such as propylene, butadiene, and BTX has become constrained. Their shortage in the market is the main driving force for the renewed interest in producing them from alkanes, as low-cost feedstocks for chemical production. Synthesis gas and hydrogen production via steam reforming, dry reforming, and partial oxidation from methane, and dehydrogenation reactions have been often used by industry for the on-purpose production of hydrogen and light alkenes like ethylene, propylene, and butylene. Catalytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes is becoming increasingly important with the exploitation of shale gas, which provides a significant amount of ethane and propane feedstocks. The dehydrogenation is one of the major routes to fill the lower olefin gap in terms of future production and demands.
Catalytic dehydrogenation reaction is an endothermic reaction, and high equilibrium conversion is favored by high temperature and low alkane pressure.2 However, hydrogenolysis also occurs at the high temperature, forming methane and other lower carbon number species leading to low olefin selectivity. Both transition metals (TMs) and metal oxides are active for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) is an alternative process to break down the thermodynamic limitation. The main challenge is to control the consecutive oxidation of alkanes/alkenes to carbon oxides due to the much higher reactivity of products than the reactants. The critical issue in the development of catalysts is, therefore, how to selectively activate the CH bonds of alkane molecules.3 During the last few decades, great progress has been made in developing catalysts and catalytic processes of alkane conversion to value-added chemicals. Amounts of reviews have been reported for homogeneous catalysis regarding CH bond activation of alkanes on organometallic and/or inorganic complexes,410 which are not covered in this review. In contrast, we focus on heterogeneous catalysis. So far, many comprehensive reviews on methane conversion1113 and ethane and propane conversion on metal,2,14 oxide,2,3,1518 metal-free,19,20 and bifunctional catalysts21 have been reported towards heterogeneous systems, covered mainly catalysts,2,12,17,21,22 kinetics,3,15 and processes.2,17 These reviews deal with progress in the experimental studies of chemistry and catalysis, focusing on key challenges related to light alkane activation in terms of activity, selectivity, and carbon formation. Despite their successful applications at an industrial scale, several central questions remain unanswered, such as active sites effectively activating CH bonds, the detailed reaction mechanism of catalytic cycles, rate-determining steps (RDSs), and factors governing the selectivity and carbon formation in activation and conversion processes of methane and light alkanes.
A better understanding of the factors governing the fundamental aspects mentioned above is important to design more efficient catalyst systems to promote selective CH activation. The design of new effective catalysts and/or improvement of industrial catalysts rely on a better understanding of the surface reactions at a molecular level. Great efforts have been devoted to assessing the structurepropertyperformance relationship. However, it is still challenging because the experimental approach can severely restrict the range of catalyst structures and compositions to be examined. An effective strategy for developing useful catalysts should involve simultaneous consideration of all structurefunction relationships that are related to stability, activity, and selectivity in the design of catalyst and reaction systems.23 Theoretical heterogeneous catalysis and surface science have witnessed significant development toward a molecular-level understanding of the working catalysts. Electronic structure calculations based primarily on ab initio density functional theory (DFT) calculations have been widely applied in heterogeneous catalysis.24 Over the past decade, DFT combined with microkinetic modeling is widely used to provide vital fundamental data regarding the properties of the active sites, mechanisms of surface reactions, RDSs, trends in reactivity, etc.2528 The development and application of DFT in heterogeneous catalysis29,30 as well as microkinetic modeling for catalyst design31,32 have been reported in several excellent reviews. Generally, microkinetic models are constructed based on DFT estimated energetics of elementary steps involved in reaction mechanisms for targeted reactions. Particularly, in recent years, the rapidly developed scaling relationships27,3336 make the combination of microkinetic modeling with DFT more convenient due to much addressed computational complexity. That is, based on the DFT calculated energetics, the scaling relationships are obtained and used to predict the energetics of other adsorbates or on other catalyst surfaces, which are further employed as input parameters of the microkinetic model. DFT calculations have shown that the energetics of crucial reaction intermediates are linked by linear scaling relationships that have been applied for rationalizing trends in CH bond activation of light alkanes across different catalyst surfaces. Gong and coworkers29 reviewed the mechanistic insights into heterogeneous catalytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes obtained from DFT calculations in 2015. Owing to the rapid development of scaling relationship-based microkinetic modeling, the molecular level understanding of surface catalyzed reactions involved in CH activation of light alkanes has been dramatically improved across metal, alloy, oxide, and metaloxide hybrid catalysts. A comprehensive review of the theoretical heterogeneous catalysis of CH activation of methane, ethane, and propane on various catalysts is highly desired to provide fundamental insights into industrial catalytic processes and guidelines for the rational design of new catalysts and/or improvement of industrial catalysts.
The purpose of this review is to describe the recent progress in computational catalysis that has addressed the CH bond activation of light alkanes, such as methane, ethane, and propane by heterogeneous transition metal, oxide, and metal/oxide catalysts, with emphasis on activity, selectivity and coke formation in light alkane conversion. This review describes the detailed understanding of kinetic and mechanistic insights into catalytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes at atomic and molecular levels obtained from DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling across various catalyst surfaces. It unravels the basic electronic features of the CH cleavage process to the targeted products. The results of the mechanistic studies depend on temperature, pressure, and reactant composition. Finally, the design of new catalysts and improvement of the catalysts are reviewed and proposed based on the fundamental understanding and theory-driven catalyst design.
The first part of the review addresses direct and oxidative CH bond activation of methane via σd interaction on metals and oxides. The mechanistic insights obtained from DFT assisted microkinetic analysis into steam and dry reforming, and the partial oxidation dependence on metal/oxide surfaces and nanoparticle (NP) size are summarized and analyzed. The theory-driven catalyst design is reviewed and discussed. The second and third parts describe direct and oxidative activation of the CH bonds of ethane and propane towards light alkene formation on various metal and oxide surfaces. The emphasis is on the elucidation of active sites, intriguing mechanisms, microkinetic modeling, and electronic features of the ethane and propane conversion processes with a focus on suppressing the side reaction and coke formation.
2. CH bond activation in methane
Methane is the simplest hydrocarbon, which is the predominant constituent (approximately 7090%) of natural gas.37 Recent advances in hydraulic fracturing have led to the effective extraction of natural gas from shale rock and triggered the so-called shale gas revolution.29,38,39 This increased supply of natural gas makes methane very attractive as both an energy source and feedstock to produce fuels and chemicals. Apart from natural gas reserves, methane is also a central component of biogas produced by the anaerobic digestion of organic materials.38,40,41 Moreover, methane can be found in crystalline hydrates existing in permafrost areas as well as the continental slopes of many oceans.38 In view of its abundant reserves and resources, and with the depletion of oil reserves, methane activation will play a key role in ensuring the supply of energy, fuels, and chemicals in the future.
Methane activation can be carried out through both direct and indirect conversion routes. To date, the industrial direct conversion routes of methane into fuels and chemicals have been limited. The challenges associated with these routes arise from the phenomenon that methane is very stable and requires very aggressive operating conditions to activate its CH bonds, which facilitates undesirable reactions, thus resulting in a loss in activity, selectivity, and yields of desired products.39 Moreover, the products are more reactive than methane, which necessitates the selective separation of the products and brings more challenges in the chemical process.42 Despite the great challenges, significant progress has been made in the direct conversion of methane to chemicals, especially in the production of hydrocarbons, such as olefins and aromatics. Direct conversion to olefins can be realized via oxidative coupling of methane (OCM),4345 and to aromatics can be realized via methane dehydroaromatization (MDA).46 Since recently Schwach et al.12 published an excellent review on direct conversion of methane into value-added chemicals, we will not include this in our review. They gave the fundamentals of CH activation, analyzed the reaction pathways regarding selective routes of OCM, MDA, and MTOAH (methane conversion to olefins, aromatics, and hydrogen),47 and provided insights into the reaction mechanisms. Readers who are specifically interested in direct conversion of methane are directed to this review article.
The indirect conversion routes of methane into more valuable chemicals via synthesis gas are economically feasible and currently industrially applied. The production of synthesis gas from methane can be realized through three reactions,42,48,49 namely steam reforming (SRM, eqn (1)), dry reforming (DRM, eqn (2)), and partial oxidation (POM, eqn (3)), which are summarized as follows:
SRM: CH4 + H2O  CO + 3H2ΔH298K = 2.14 eV (1)
DRM: CH4 + CO2  2CO + 2H2ΔH298K = 2.56 eV (2)
POM: CH4 + 0.5O2  CO + 2H2ΔH298K = 0.37 eV (3)
The differences between the three processes are based on the oxidant used, the energetics and kinetics of the reaction, and the synthesis gas produced with different H2/CO ratios.40,50 Among the three indirect processes, SRM is the conventional technology for methane conversion due to the highest hydrogen yield, from which approximately 75% of hydrogen is produced.50 DRM and POM are not industrially mature processes. However, the considerable environmental benefit of DRM49,51 and the thermodynamic advantage of POM38 make them have great potential in the future. In view of the importance of these indirect processes in methane conversion, the development of effective catalysts to achieve high activity, selectivity, and stability has a great significance for further methane utilization.
All three processes are found to be active over noble metal catalysts such as Rh, Ru, Ir, Pt, and Pd, and over non-noble metal catalysts like Ni and Co. Moreover, the oxide is one of the crucial types of catalysts to promote methane conversion. So far, the catalyst performance, support effect, promoter effect, deactivation, and kinetics and mechanisms of SRM,38,39,5258 DRM,40,4951,5965 and POM48,6671 over both noble and non-noble metal catalysts as well as oxide catalysts16,18,7274 have been summarized in many reviews. However, these reviews are mostly introduced from experimental points of view, and a systematic understanding of these reactions from a theoretical perspective is still missing. Herein, we mainly review these reactions based on DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling, with the kinetic studies briefly introduced. CH bond activation in methane is first elucidated.
2.1 Activation of CH bonds in methane on metal and oxide surfaces
A methane molecule has four H atoms bonded to a single C atom in a tetrahedral orientation. The CH4 molecule is geometrically highly symmetrical and nonpolar, and it is neither an electron donor nor acceptor. The unique structural and electronic features of the methane molecule make it weakly interact with catalytic surfaces. A high bond dissociation energy of the CH bond makes methane a relatively unreactive starting material. The first CH bond activation is the critical step in methane conversion, which has been reported to be the RDS for methane decomposition, oxidation, and steam and dry reforming on different catalysts (Ni, Pd, Ru, and Rh), according to the kinetic studies by Wei and Iglesia7580 and other researchers.8190 Therefore, understanding the mechanism for CH bond activation is essential for further comprehending SRM, DRM, and POM reactions.
2.1.1 CH bond activation on metal surfaces On metal catalysts, the first CH bond activation might take place via three pathways, namely direct CH4 dissociation, O*-assisted CH4 dissociation, and OH*-assisted CH4 dissociation. Hibbitts et al.91 carried out DFT calculations to systematically explore the activation of the CH bond in methane over group 810 (Ru, Rh, Pt, Pd, Os, and Ir) and group 11 (Cu, Ag, and Au) TMs. The three methane activation pathways, namely the direct CH activation, and O* and OH*-assisted activation, were considered, where the transition-state structures on the Pd(111) surface are shown in Fig. 1(a).
Fig. 1 (a) Transition-state structures for the activation of the CH bond in CH4 over (A) metalmetal site pairs (direct), (B) metalO* site pairs (O*-assisted), and (C) metalOH* (OH*-assisted) on the Pd(111) surface. Reported bond lengths are given in pm. (b) Difference between the O*-assisted and direct CH4 activation barriers () and the difference between OH*-assisted and direct CH4 activation () compared to the binding energy of O*. Activation barriers and reaction energies for the CH4 activation via (c) direct CH4 activation (), (d) O*-assisted CH4 activation (), and (e) OH*-assisted CH4 activation (). Points are colored by the trends in O* binding energy, where red refers to the most strongly bound O* and blue refers to the most weakly bound O* (BErad, eV). The data of Ni, Co, and Fe in (c), (d), and (e) were obtained from our previous work.36,87,89,92 The others were reported by Hibbitts et al.91 Adapted from ref. 91 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2016.
Fig. 1(b) gives the activation barrier differences between the three routes as a function of O* binding energy. The respective activation barriers as a function of reaction energy for the three routes are shown as Fig. 1(ce), respectively. The data of Ru, Rh, Pd, Os, Ir, Pt, Cu, Ag, and Au were reported by Hibbitts et al.,91 and those of Ni, Co, and Fe were obtained from our previous work.36,87,89,92 For group 810 metals (Ru, Rh, Pd, Os, and Ir), the DFT calculated activation barriers of O*-assisted CH4 dissociation were much higher than those of OH*-assisted CH4 dissociation, both higher than those of direct CH4 dissociation. Hibbitts et al.91 also compared the activation barriers for CH3* dissociation of the three pathways, where the direct route exhibited the lowest activation barrier for the above group 810 metals.
Similarly, Niu et al.92 also found that the first CH bond activation via direct CH4 dissociation (activation energy Ea: 1.21 eV) was more energetically favorable than O-assisted (Ea: 1.66 eV) and OH-assisted CH4 dissociation (Ea: 3.39 eV) on a Ni(111) surface (Fig. 1ce). Moreover, the CH bond activation of CH3* and CH2* via direct dissociation was energetically preferred over the other two pathways. The observation is in good agreement with those reported by Zhu et al.93 on a Ni(111) surface, by Fan et al.94 on Ni(111), Ni(211), and Ni(100) surfaces, by Wang et al.87,89 on Ni, Rh, Pd, and Pt(111), (211), and (100) surfaces, by Jrgensen et al.86 on Pd(111) and Pd(100) surfaces, by Yoo et al.95 on a Pd(111) surface, and by Wang et al.88 on a Pt(111) surface. Like on Ni, the activation barriers of direct CH4 dissociation on Co and Fe were also much lower than those of the other two pathways (Fig. 1ce), and extremely high activation barriers of OH*-assisted CH4 dissociation (34 eV) were observed (Fig. 1e).36,89 It is worth mentioning that even though the direct CH4 dissociation was also calculated as the energetically most favorable pathway on Co catalysts, Tu et al.96 suggested that the O*-assisted route dominated CH4 activation on Co and NiCo clusters because of their high oxophilicities, resulting in their surfaces covered with oxygen adatoms.
For group 11 metals, the O*- and OH*-assisted routes were energetically preferred over the direct CH4 dissociation route for both CH4 and CH3* dissociation. However, the activation energies of O*- and OH*-assisted CH activation are still higher than that of the direct dissociation of methane on other groups of metals (810). The promotional effects of O* and OH* in activating CH bonds on the group 11 metals were related to the MO/MOH binding energy and their basicity when binding with metal. The weakly bound O* and OH* often participate and assist in CH bond activation. As such, enhanced promotional effects were observed on the group 11 metal surfaces by O*/OH* over direct metal activation due to their weak MO/MOH bonding. Moreover, the O* and OH* are more negatively charged when binding with the group 11 metals, thus increasing their basicity and ability to promote CH activation. In contrast, the basicity of O* and OH* over the group 810 metal surfaces is not strong enough to aid CH bond activation. As a result, the presence of O* or OH* will reduce the overall reaction rate since they will block active surface sites.
The Pt(111) surface is an exception, where the activation barrier for OH*-assisted CH4 dissociation was lower than those for the direct dissociation and the O*-assisted route.91,92,97 On the Pt(211) surface, the direct CH4 dissociation was the energetically most favorable pathway.97 However, the preferred reaction pathways need to be determined based on the whole catalytic cycle. Chen and Vlachos97 proposed that the reactions involving OH*-assisted CH bond activation and addition were most probably the minor reaction pathways, because the OH coverage was low in methane reforming and oxidation and the direct CH4 dissociation was suggested as a dominant pathway on both the Pt(211) and Pt(111) surfaces. Similarly, the recent DFT study of Niu et al.92 indicated that the OH*-assisted CH4 activation was considered as an attractive alternative route for SRM on a Pt(111) surface. However, taking the coverage effect of OH* into account could reasonably lead to the direct CH4 dissociation route being dominant.
CH bond activation via direct CH4 dissociation dominates methane activation on group 810 metals, which are active catalysts for SRM, DRM, and POM reactions. Gong and coworkers29 gave a detailed review of the theoretical study of methane dehydrogenation over various transition-metal surfaces, including fcc(111), hcp(0001), fcc(100), and fcc(211). The difference in activation energy between different elementary steps was found to be related to electronic and geometric effects, and the difference between other metals could be associated with the metal d-band center. Therefore, we only give a brief overview here. For instance, the geometries of the transition states (TSs) for CH4 dehydrogenation on close-packed Ni(111) and stepped Ni(211) surfaces are shown in Fig. 2(a and b), with the corresponding activation energies listed.94 Among the four elementary steps, the step CH  C + H showed the highest activation barrier for both Ni(111) and Ni(211) surfaces, consistent with that summarized by Gong and coworkers.29 The high barrier of CH  C + H results mainly from the stability of CH* (electronic effect) coupled with the perpendicular nature of CH* (geometrical effect). As shown in Fig. 2(c), CH* is perpendicular to the Ni(211) surface, where an energy penalty is required to bend the structure parallel to the metal surface in the transition state, and therefore geometrically not favorable for further dehydrogenation. The Ni(211) surface exhibits lower activation energies than the Ni(111) surface due to the existence of under-coordinated atoms on the stepped (211) surface, leading to higher binding strengths of surface intermediates and more stabilization of transition states and final states. Moreover, the geometric effect also influences the activation barriers between stepped and terrace surfaces. The partial charge densities projected onto the bonding states in Fig. 2(c and d) show that the CH species forms bonds with 4 Ni atoms, while 5-coordinated bonding is achieved between the C atom and Ni(211), demonstrating the strong binding of C on the stepped Ni(211) surface.98 Fig. 2 Geometries of the transition states (TS) for CH4 dehydrogenation on (a) Ni(111) and (b) Ni(211) surfaces. The values below the geometries are the activation energies of the corresponding elementary steps reported by Zhu et al.93 and Fan et al.94 Reproduced from ref. 93 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2009. Reproduced from ref. 94 with permission from the American Chemical Society, copyright 2015. The densities of states (DOS) projected onto the sp states of CH (c) and C (d) and the d-band of stepped Ni(211) surfaces. ads and clean denote the surface with and without an adsorbate, respectively. The left inset figures show the side and bird's eye views of the partial charge density projected onto bonding states within an energy range bound by a dashed ellipse. The right inset figures show the geometries of CH and C on Ni(211) surfaces.98 Adapted from ref. 98 with permission from Springer Nature, copyright 2017.The activation energy of the CH activation depends on the metal surfaces (Fig. 1) and the metal dependence follows the BrnstedEvansPolanyi (BEP) relationship that the activation energy of the elementary step scales linearly with reaction heat. Nrskov and co-workers found that the C binding energy can be used as a descriptor for the linear scaling relations (LSRs) of CHx (x = 1, 2, 3) adsorption energies and transition-state energies with respect to their gas-phase energies over various transition-metal surfaces.33,99,100 The linear relation could also be established between the activation energies and C adsorption energies, as shown in Fig. 3(a), based on our data.36 CH* dissociation shows the highest activation energy among the dehydrogenation steps, with the energy barriers for CH4, CH3, and CH2 dissociation gradually reduced on the close-packed surfaces. The Cmetal binding energy can be simply characterized by the metal d-band center, as shown in Fig. 3(b). This underlines the theory that the binding energy of an adsorbate to a metal surface is strongly dependent on the electronic structure of the surface itself. When the CH σ bond interacts with the metal d bond, the metal d-band hybridizes with the CH bonding (σ) orbital to form bonding (dσ) and antibonding (dσ)* states. The metaladsorbate interaction depends on the extent of filling of the (dσ)* or the location of the d-band center. The energetically higher d-band center results in a higher C binding energy. The higher C binding energy leads to more negative CHx adsorption energy and its transition-state energy and a lower CHx dissociation barrier.Fig. 3 (a) Activation energies of CH4 dehydrogenation steps as a function of carbon adsorption energies on an fcc(111) surface, with the data obtained from our previous work.36 (b) Relationship between C binding energy and the metal d-band center.29 Published by the Royal Society of Chemistry, copyright 2015.
2.1.2 CH bond activation on oxide surfaces Apart from metal surfaces, metal oxides are one of the important classes of catalysts for CH bond activation in oxidative methane CC coupling,13,101 low-temperature oxidation,12 solid fuel cells,102 and chemical looping reforming. A physically adsorbed methane molecule on an oxide surface has a binding energy of only about 0.10 to 0.15 eV.16 Methane activation could occur via either the radical-like transition state (Fig. 4a) or the surface-stabilized transition state (Fig. 4b) on metal oxides.103105 The major difference between the two transition states is the distance between C (in CH4) and the interacted surface metal atom, which illustrates the distinct interaction between CH4 and the metal surface.104 Many of the most promising catalysts stimulate alkane activation via radical-like TS, due to the energetically unfavorable interaction of the CH3 with the surface. However, regardless of the transition states, the nucleophilic surface oxygen attacks the electrophilic H in the CH bond to form an OH bond in CH bond activation. The hydrogen affinity (EH) has been shown to be a suitable descriptor of reactivity for radical-like hydrocarbon activation. Latimer et al.103,106 presented a universal scaling relation to predict CH activation barriers on heterogeneous catalysts, where a transition-state (TS) energy can be correlated with a single universal descriptor for various catalysts that proceed via a radical-like TS, as shown in Fig. 4(c). The TS energy is linearly correlated with H binding energy. In addition, all materials they explored that occurred through the surface-stabilized pathway seem to follow the TS scaling relationship which is linearly related to the final state energy, as shown in Fig. 4(d). The authors demonstrated that these scaling relations were valid for several reducible and irreducible oxides, sulfides, and promoted metals.
Fig. 4 Two activation mechanisms on rutile-type metal oxide (110) surfaces are exhibited: (a) the radical-like transition state (TS) and (b) the surface-stabilized transition state (TS).104 Reproduced from ref. 104 with permission from the American Chemical Society, copyright 2019. Universal scaling relations for (c) the radical pathway (0.75EH + 1.09) and (d) the surface-stabilized pathway (0.67EFS + 1.04).103 Reproduced from ref. 103 with permission from the PCCP Owner Societies, copyright 2017.
More interestingly, Latimer et al.103,106 proposed a universal scaling relationship for CH bond activation (ETS) across reactants and catalysts that depends only on the hydrogen affinity of the catalyst (EH) and the CH bond energy of the reactant (ECH):
ETS = 0.75EH  1.26ECH  4.93 (4)
The relationship predicts well the CH bond activation energies compared to the DFT-calculated ones across a wide variety of reactants and catalysts. The CH activation energy of methane is the highest due to the more negative CH bond energy.
Aljama et al. studied the role of alkaline metal oxides (MgO, CaO, and SrO)107 and alkaline earth metal oxides (AEMOs) with an alkaline earth metal (AEM) or a TM as a dopant108 in breaking the CH bond in methane. The dopant can change the TS structure. Microkinetic modeling and analysis were performed using the binding energies of H and CH3 as two descriptors, and a volcano plot was obtained. Even for the surface-stabilized TS on pure alkaline metal oxides, the hydrogen binding energy was found to be a more appropriate descriptor. This suggested that at weak H binding strength, the reaction was limited by CH bond activation. However, at strong H binding strength, the reaction was limited by poisoning of the active site.
Perovskite oxides with the formula ABO3 have gained increasing attention in applications in energy-related processes, such as solid fuel cells and chemical looping reforming of methane due to the massive family of combinations of A and B, well-defined structures, and excellent tunability of properties. Fung et al.109 investigated a broad set of perovskite compositions via descriptors of O reactivity such as the H adsorption energy, vacancy formation energy, and first CH activation energy of methane using DFT calculations. The cubic perovskite (001) surface has both A and B terminations, as shown in Fig. 5(a). On each model termination, one possible lattice O site exists for catalysis. On the A termination surface, the O is fourfold-coordinated to the surface A cation and onefold-coordinated to the subsurface B cation. On the B termination surface, the O is twofold-coordinated to both the surface B cation and subsurface A cation. The reactive lattice O activates the methane molecule via a homolytic CH bond cleavage, as illustrated in the upper part of Fig. 5(a). The typical geometries of CH activation transition states over the perovskite(001) surface A and B terminations can be found in the lower part of Fig. 5(a). A strong linear relationship between the H adsorption energy or hydrogen affinity and the O vacancy formation energy was observed, as shown in Fig. 5(b). Both parameters can be used as descriptors for CH bond activation of methane, as shown in Fig. 5(c) and (d), in good agreement with the universal scaling relationship.103,106 The stronger the hydrogen adsorption on the lattice O or the easier the O vacancy formation at the lattice-O site, the lower the CH activation barrier of methane. The oxygen vacancy formation energy has been widely used as a descriptor of the CH activation energy of methane on CeO2(111) doped with TMs, TbOx(111), ZnO, doped TiO2, and doped MgO;101 on pure CeO2(111), (100) and (110) surfaces and surfaces with Pd or Zr substituted in Ce lattice positions;110 on lanthanum oxides doped with Fe, Mg, Zn, Cu, Nb, Ti, Zr, and Ta; and on undoped catalysts.111 Oxides doped with low-valence atoms decreased the oxygen vacancy formation energy, which enhanced CH bond activation. The lowered methane activation barrier was also observed for La2O3 catalyst doped with Cu, Zn, or Mg112 and for CeO2 doped with Pt.113 It can be generally proposed that oxides doped with low-valence metals are better methane activation catalysts than the undoped oxides.
Fig. 5 (a) Top: CH4 activation on the perovskite (001) A and B terminations. Bottom: The homolytic CH pathway and the typical transition states (A, green; B, blue; O, red; C, grey; H, white). (b) Correlation between the hydrogen adsorption and vacancy formation energy of the lattice oxygen. Correlations between the homolytic CH activation energy of CH4 and (c) hydrogen adsorption energy and (d) oxygen vacancy formation energy. The black dotted line represents the linear best fit.109 Reproduced from ref. 109 with permission from the Royal Society of Chemistry, copyright 2018.
2.2 Methane conversion on metal surfaces
Great efforts have been devoted to the first-principles study of the CH bond-breaking step of methane in a multistep process,91,98,103,106,114120 because the CH bond activation is often the RDS of the methane conversion. However, studying only the CH activation step is insufficient to gain insight into the reaction mechanism, carbon formation, and RDSs, which can change with catalysts and operating conditions. Calculating the energy profile for the entire catalytic cycle is a demanding task, but it provides the activation barriers for the elementary steps. Microkinetic modeling and analysis of the whole cycle allow us to assess the preferential reaction pathways, RDSs, and dominating surface intermediates. Besides, the scaling relationships related to the binding energies of a wide variety of catalytic intermediates across a range of catalyst surfaces enable us to conduct theory-driven catalyst design. In the next sections, we will review the progress in the first-principles study and descriptor-based microkinetic modeling and analysis of the entire catalytic cycles in steam and dry methane reforming and partial oxidation of methane across a range of catalyst surfaces and catalyst nanoparticles.
2.2.1 Steam reforming of methane Metal dependence of activity Steam reforming of methane is one of the main processes for hydrogen production.121 To date, many efforts have been devoted to investigating the SRM reaction from both experimental75,76,78,122129 and theoretical87,89,97,126128,130135 points of view. The reaction is active over various transition-metal catalysts. For these metals, most studies demonstrated an activity trend of Ru, Rh > Ni, Ir > Pt, Pd > Co, Fe with a temperature range of 6731173 K and atmospheric pressure.87,123,124,127,136Fig. 6(a) gives the microkinetic modeling results of SRM, reported by Jones et al.,127 and plots log10(TOF) as a function of C and O binding energies as two descriptors. The microkinetic model was built based on the energetics estimated by the linear scaling relationships and BEP relationships over the fcc(211) and bcc(210) surfaces. The descriptor-based microkinetic modeling provided a volcano curve as a function of C and O binding energies as descriptors. Ru, Rh and Ni(211) were found to be active for SRM and the activity is near the predicted optimum activity. It can be explored to design new catalysts with high performance.
Fig. 6 (a) Microkinetic modeling predicted log10(TOF) as a function of C and O binding energies for SRM. Reaction conditions: T = 773 K, P = 1 bar, 10% conversion. (b) Experimentally measured TOF as a function of dispersion for SRM across Ru (), 5 wt% Rh (), 1 wt% Rh (Δ), Ni (), Pt (), Ir (•) and Pd () catalysts. Reaction conditions: T = 773 K, PCH4 = 0.19 bar, PH2O = 0.74 bar, PH2 = 0.07 bar.127 Reproduced from ref. 127 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2008.
At 773 K, 1 bar, and 10% conversion, the model-predicted activity trend is Ru > Rh > Ni > Ir > Pt  Pd. In addition to theoretical calculations, the authors also investigated the activity employing experimental measurements. By assuming that support effects were negligible, the obtained experimental activity trend at 773 K was Ru  Rh > Ni  Ir  Pt  Pd (Fig. 6b). Although the modeling results are not exactly the same as the experimental results, the general trends are consistent. The difference between the theoretical and experimental results might be caused by some sources of errors both in the modeling and in the experiments. The combined DFT, scaling relationship, and descriptor-based microkinetic modeling can effectively describe catalytic reactions at surfaces with the detail and accuracy required for the predicted activity tendency comparable to experiments.It seems that among these pure metals, Ru and Rh are the most active catalysts, Ni and Ir are moderately active, and Pd and Pt are less active. However, the kinetic studies of Wei and Iglesia7580 illustrated a different result, with the activity order as Pt > Ir > Rh > Ru, Ni at 873 K. In their studies, Pt is the most active catalyst. Despite the controversy about the metal activity, Ni, Rh, Ru, Pt and Pd are among the focuses of research for SRM. Ni is the most studied catalyst due to its low cost, abundance, and relatively high activity, and is a commercial and mature industrial SRM catalyst.58,137 Rh and Ru are normally studied because of their high reforming activity and coke-resistant performance.133 Pt is also a potential SRM catalyst with high activity, according to Wei and Iglesia's work.75 A better understanding of the SRM mechanism on these metal surfaces serves as an important step in revealing the nature of this reaction and in aiding the rational design of catalysts.Metal dependence of the reaction mechanism The reaction mechanism of steam methane reforming has been long studied both experimentally and theoretically, due to its industrial importance. The reaction mechanism of SRM typically involves methane activation (three CH activation pathways as discussed above), and CH*/C* oxidation by OH* or O* to form CO. As a result, the mechanism involves many elementary steps, leading to many reaction pathways to form synthesis gas, as shown in Fig. 7.Fig. 7 Reaction network for SRM over Ni catalyst and estimated net turnover frequency (TOFNet) for elementary steps involved in the microkinetic model over the Ni(211) surface. The dominant reaction pathway is colored blue. Reaction conditions: 773 K, 1 bar, S/C = 3.5, and CH4/H2 = 1.0.87 Reproduced from ref. 87 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2019.The activation of CH bonds in methane generates surface CHx (x = 13), and CH* and C* have been identified as the critical intermediates for CO formation. The CH*/C* may follow five routes to form CO by using O*/OH* as an oxidant (Fig. 7). They are (1) the direct C* and O* combination route (CO route: CH*  C*  CO*), (2) hydrogen insertion via HCO* (CHO route: CH*  HCO*  CO*) and (3) COH* (COH route: CH*  C*  COH*  CO*), and routes that involve the HCOH* intermediate like (4) the HCOH route (CH*  HCOH*  HCO*  CO*) and (5) the HCOH route (CH*  HCOH*  COH*  CO*). The O* and OH* are provided by the dissociation of H2O.DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling are powerful tools for elucidating the reaction pathways for syngas formation via the complex reaction mechanism and identifying the RDS, as it is difficult or almost impossible to gain a full picture on the basis of only experimental work. However, due to the coverage or surface concentration effect, it is difficult to determine the dominating reaction mechanisms purely based on DFT-calculated barriers under reaction conditions.29 The microkinetic modeling is therefore employed to clarify further the mechanistic scenario, which provides opportunities to directly acquire the reaction rate by taking into account both energy and coverage.87,94,130,132,138 Recently, Wang et al.89 conducted comprehensive microkinetic modeling to gain unified insight into the SRM mechanism on different metal surfaces with energetics estimated by combining a DFT-modified UBI-QEP (unity bond index-quadratic exponential potential) method and BEP relationships. The unified 2D mapping of the dominant reaction pathway and the RDS as a function of C and O formation energies is shown in Fig. 8 at 773 K (a) and 1073 K (b). The lower formation energy corresponds to a higher binding energy. The map can be divided into three areas in terms of the dominant reaction pathways. The O*-assisted CH activation can only be for the catalysts with high C formation energy and low O formation energy. For most of the catalysts, the direct CH dissociation is the preferred pathway for methane activation. RDSs such as HCH3, HCH2, COH, and CHO were observed. This clearly shows that the RDS can change with catalysts or conditions. Based on the 2D map, the dominant reaction pathway and the RDS on transition metals Ni, Pt, Pd, and Rh with different surfaces such as (111), (100) and (211) were analyzed. It was found that the direct CH4 dissociation was the dominant pathway for methane activation for all the metal surfaces concerned, independent of temperature. CO formation mainly takes place via the COH route on the (100) surface due to the strong C binding strength and relatively weak binding of O, except for Ni(100) with HCH3 activation as the RDS. On Pt(111) and (211), CHO (HCO* formation) is the RDS, while on Ni(211), HCH3 activation is the RDS. On Ni(111) and Rh surfaces, with increasing temperature, the RDS changes from HCO* formation to CH4 dissociation. The change in RDS with temperature agrees with the microkinetic modeling results reported by Jones et al.127 Fig. 8 Schematic diagrams of the dominant reaction pathways (divided by colors) and rate-determining steps (divided by the dashed lines) as functions of C and O formation energies on different metal surfaces for SRM (a) at 773 K, 1 bar, with 18.2% CH4, 63.6% H2O, 18.2% H2, and (b) at 1073 K, 10 bar, with 18.2% CH4, 63.6% H2O, 18.2% H2.89 Adapted from ref. 89 with permission from the American Chemical Society, copyright 2020.The reaction mechanism and microkinetics have been intensively studied on Ni, Rh, Ru, Pt, and Pd catalysts. We will review the recent progress in the understanding of the mechanism and RDS on these catalysts.Ni catalysts Ni catalyst is the most widely studied catalyst due to its importance in industry where the Ni(111) surface is the most studied surface. In 1997, Aparicio125 carried out transient isotopic and microkinetic modeling to investigate the SRM mechanism over Ni catalysts. Direct dissociation of methane was experimentally demonstrated to be the main CH bond activation pathway. The results suggested that there was no unified RDS for SRM. Both the first CH activation and CO formation could all be kinetically relevant steps depending on the reaction conditions. In some cases, one of them can be the RDS, but in most cases, a combination of them determines the reaction rate. Later, Wei and Iglesia7580 conducted a series of kinetic investigations for SRM on a range of metal catalysts (including Ni), which indicated that the first CH bond activation was the RDS at high temperature (8231023 K). However, at relatively low temperatures (<773 K), CO formation was expected as the RDS for most metals (including Ni), according to the thermodynamic analysis reported by Jones et al.127 The change in the RDS from CO formation to methane dissociation is caused by the increased reaction barrier of methane dissociation (related to entropy contribution) as the temperature increases.More detailed theoretical studies relevant to SRM on Ni catalysts have been extensively carried out on Ni(211), Ni(111), and Ni(100) surfaces. In 2002, Bengaard et al.126 combined DFT calculations, microkinetic and Monte Carlo simulations, kinetic measurements, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), and extended X-ray absorption spectroscopy (EXAFS) to present a comprehensive mechanistic picture of the SRM process on a Ni catalyst. DFT calculations were performed on step Ni(211) and flat Ni(111) surfaces, based on which potential energy diagrams of the full reaction were obtained. The methane activation was considered to be among the RDSs on the Ni(211) surface,125 which is consistent with the general RDS mapping in Fig. 8. Although Ni(111) exhibited a higher barrier, it has more available active sites because of more facet sites than step sites in a normal particle (except for extremely small particles). Therefore, the authors concluded that there are at least two types of active sites on a Ni catalyst: one is very active, related to certain step and surface defect sites; and the other is less active, related to the close-packed surfaces.It is generally agreed that the CHO route was energetically the most preferred pathway on the Ni(111) surface for CO formation.81,92,93,130,139141 Wang et al.87 also confirmed the CHO route as an energetically favorable pathway on Ni(211) as well as Ni(100) and Ni(111) surfaces from 773 to 848 K by microkinetic modeling. However, Blaylock et al.132 illustrated by multi-facet microkinetic modeling of Ni NPs consisting of Ni(111), Ni(211), and Ni(100) that the favorable reaction pathway depends on the reaction temperature. The CO route was the most preferred pathway at high temperatures; however, at low temperatures, CHO and COH routes were predicted to be more important. Dissociative chemisorption of methane and CO*/HCO*/COH* formation were the RDSs. Xu et al.133 compared the CO route, CHO route, and COH route on twelve TM stepped (211) surfaces by means of microkinetic modeling and demonstrated that the CO route was the most favorable pathway owing to the highest estimated rates. CO formation was the RDS at 773 K. In summary, for Ni catalysts, direct CH4 dissociation is accepted as a dominant route for methane activation, although the exact reaction mechanism for CO formation is still under debate. The RDS can change with temperature and with Ni surfaces.Rh, Ru, Pt, and Pd catalysts Mei et al.128 obtained a lower activation barrier for the CHO route (1.37 eV) than the CO route (1.59 eV) on a Rh(111) surface. van Grootel et al.131 reported competition between the CHO route and CO route on a Rh(111) surface and that the CHO route was slightly more favorable on a Rh(211) surface through a comparison of DFT calculated activation barriers. Inderwildi et al.142 observed a much lower activation barrier for the CHO route (0.99 eV) than the CO route (2.23 eV) on a Ru(0001) surface. Chen et al.97 suggested a dominant pathway of the CO route on Pt(111) and Pt(211) surfaces. Wang et al.88 demonstrated a primary reaction pathway of the CHO route involving HCOO* on a Pt(111) surface, while the route involving a CHOH* intermediate turned to be dominant in a moist environment, based on the DFT-calculated activation barrier. Since the SRM mechanism is controversial on different metal surfaces, and it is insufficient to determine the dominant pathway solely based on the activation barrier; microkinetic modeling was employed to further elucidate the mechanism by taking into account both energy and coverage effects.The microkinetic modeling of steam and dry reforming by Maestri et al.83 predicted that the direct dissociation of the CH bond was the main pathway of methane activation on Rh catalyst. The microkinetic can describe well the experimental results over a wide range. The microkinetic analysis showed that the CO formation took place by oxidation of the surface C* via C* + OH*  CO* + H*, and the CH3* dehydrogenation (CH3* + *  CH2* + H*) was the RDS for both steam and dry reforming.Towards CO formation, the DFT calculations and microkinetic modeling study of Zhu et al.134 showed that the CO route was the dominant pathway on Rh(211), Rh(111), Pt(533), and Pt(111) surfaces. The microkinetic modeling of Xu et al.133 indicated that the CO route was more favorable on Ru and Rh(211) surfaces and that the COH route was more preferred on a Pt(211) surface. The DFT-based microkinetic modeling of Jrgensen et al.86 illustrated that the CO route was more favorable at high temperatures and the COH route involving COH* and OCOH* intermediates was more preferred at low temperatures on Pd(111) and Pd(100) surfaces. The DFT and microkinetic study of Yoo et al.95 revealed that the HCOH route dominated the reaction on a Pd(111) surface under mildly oxidizing conditions. Trinchero et al.84 reported a CO route on (111), (100), (211), and (321) surfaces of Pt and Pd using DFT and microkinetic modeling. All the analyses point out that CH bond activation in methane is among the RDSs, although there is a difference in the exact RDS. As shown in Fig. 8, the RDSs on Rh surfaces change with operating temperature. At relatively high temperatures, the HCH3 could be the RDS, in accord with the microkinetic analysis by Maestri et al.83 The microkinetic analysis results agree with the experimental observation reported in the literature.77,123,143,144 To sum up, it seems that direct CH4 dissociation dominates methane activation for Ni, Rh, Ru, Pt, and Pd. The OH-assisted CH4 dissociation is limited by low OH* surface coverage, although sometimes it is energetically favorable. At the same time, the dominant routes for CO formation are dependent on the catalysts and the metal surfaces. The RDS of the total SRM reaction can change with temperature and with catalysts. The change in RDS with temperature is mainly caused by the large entropy loss of methane, which raises the reaction barrier of methane dissociation as the temperature increases. The change in the RDS with catalysts results from the distinct Cmetal and Ometal binding energies on different metal surfaces, which are descriptors to probe the catalyst activity.Size dependence of activity In addition to mechanistic research, the metal particle size-dependent activity of SRM also attracted much attention in the previous study. The early work concerning the particle size effect on metal activity for SRM was mainly carried out through experimental measurements. Wei and Iglesia7578,80 investigated the effects of metal dispersion on CH4 reforming turnover rates for Pt, Ir, Rh, Ru, and Ni catalysts. The forward CH4 turnover rates were observed to increase monotonically with the metal dispersions. Similarly, Jones et al.127 observed a linear relationship between the TOF and dispersion for Ru, Rh, Ni, Pt, Pd, and Ir catalysts, as shown in Fig. 6(b). Since dispersion is inversely proportional to particle size for not too small particles, the particle size effect on activity could be easily obtained; that is, the smaller the particle size, the higher the activity (turnover number) for the investigated metals. The activity was therefore considered to depend on the surface structure of the NPs, and the under-coordination sites (edges, kinks, and defects) were expected to be the active sites for SRM because of the larger fraction of under-coordinated surface sites exposed on small particles than larger particles.127,145,146 The DFT-based microkinetic modeling was subsequently employed to investigate the size-dependent activity. DFT calculations provide the reaction mechanism and kinetic parameters on specific surfaces such as Ni(111), Ni(100), and Ni(211). The multifaceted microkinetic model brings the bridge between the DFT calculation and the kinetics of nanoparticles.87,89,123 To gain insight into the size-dependent activity, Wang et al.87,89 reported an approach that combined microkinetic modeling with a truncated octahedron model to calculate the total activity based on the surface fraction and individual surface activity. The schematic diagram of a truncated octahedron model is shown in Fig. 9, which consists of fcc(111) and fcc(100) surfaces, where steps, edges, and corners are treated as an fcc(211) surface. The total reaction rate ( ) can be estimated by the sum of surface fraction (fi) times individual reaction rate (TOFi):(5) where f111, f100, and f211 are the surface fractions of (111), (100), and (211), respectively, estimated by a statistical truncated octahedron model. TOF111, TOF100, and TOF211 are individual turnover frequencies on the (111), (100), and (211) surfaces, predicted by microkinetic modeling.Fig. 9 A truncated octahedron model consisting of fcc(111), fcc(100), and fcc(211) surfaces.89 Adapted from ref. 89 with permission from the American Chemical Society, copyright 2020.For Ni catalyst, the modeling well reproduced the size-dependent activity observed from the kinetic study, namely lower activity on larger sized Ni particles (Fig. 10b).87 The size-dependent activity was found to result from the surface-dependent activity. Ni(211) was the most active surface for SRM (Fig. 10a), and the decreased Ni(211) surface fraction with increasing particle size resulted in reduced Ni activity (Fig. 10b). The Ni(111) activity was limited by a high energy barrier, and the Ni(100) activity was limited by surface blockage related to C* and CH* deposition (Fig. 11a). The study also demonstrated that stabilizing Ni catalysts with particle sizes 6 nm (Fig. 10b) could be a good strategy to achieve high activity for SRM reaction. The apparent activation energies calculated from the modeling were 1.131.21 eV with the Ni particle size in the range of 8 nm to 12 nm, which was in good agreement with the results measured by experiments, 1.061.17 eV for 812 nm. These values were also close to the experimental data reported by Wei and Iglesia (1.06 eV),80 Nikolla et al. (1.05  0.04 eV),147 Zeppieri et al. (1.00  0.02 eV),148 and Niu et al. (1.08 eV).92 Moreover, the combined model predicted well the change in the apparent activation energy with Ni particle size, i.e., lower activation energy on larger sized Ni particles. Niu et al.92 reported an effective activation energy of 1.12 eV based on a DFT calculated G plot, also consistent with the experimental values on Ni catalysts. This demonstrated that microkinetic modeling and/or DFT are feasible approaches to characterize the real kinetic properties.Fig. 10 Modeling predicted forward CH4 turnover frequency as a function of (a) C and O formation energies in SRM on Ni(111), Ni(211), and Ni(100) surfaces at 773 K, and (b) Ni particle size (1.316 nm) at 773, 798, 823, and 848 K.87 Reproduced from ref. 87 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2019. (c) Predicted activity for H2 production over M(111) (green), M(211) (black), and M(100) (blue) surfaces. M denotes Ni, Pd, Pt, and Rh. (d) TOFH2 as a function of particle size for Ni, Pd, Pt, and Rh NPs. Reaction conditions: 773 K, 1 bar, S/C = 3.5, and CH4/H2 = 1.0.89 Reproduced from ref. 89 with permission from the American Chemical Society, copyright 2020.Fig. 11 (a) O* and (b) C* site coverages as functions of C- and O-metal formation energies in SRM. Reaction conditions: 773 K, 1 bar, 18.2% CH4, 63.6% H2O, 18.2% H2.89 Adapted from ref. 89 with permission from the American Chemical Society, copyright 2020.The size-dependent activity of SRM on Rh, Ru and Pt catalysts follows the same trend as that on Ni, namely, the smaller the particle size, the higher the activity.7577,80,127,149 Wang et al.89 also provided a systematic and in-depth understanding of the size-dependent activity on Rh, Ni, Pd, and Pt catalysts by combining microkinetic modeling with a truncated octahedron model. The modeling predicted activity of H2 production in SRM on each metal surface is shown in Fig. 10(c). It was found that the M(211) surface is most active for Rh, Ni, and Pd catalysts, while for Pt, the M(100) surface is most active. The total activity was estimated by the sum of individual TOF on each surface multiplied by the surface fraction, based on that, the total TOF against particle size is plotted in Fig. 10(d). The TOFs were observed to be inversely proportional to particle size and linearly related to dispersion, in good agreement with reported experimental results.7577,80,127,149 The linear scaling between TOFs and dispersion was associated with a linear relationship between surface fractions and dispersion. M(211) was the active surface, and the increased M(211) surface fraction along with increased dispersion led to enhanced NP activity at smaller NP size. As for metal-dependent activity, the catalytic activity of SRM followed Rh > Ni > Pd  Pt for both small and large particles. Compared to Rh, the activity of Ni was limited by surface blocking, and the activities of Pt and Pd were limited by high free energy barriers. Although Rh exhibits very high activity, other noble metals such as Ru, Pt, Pd, and Ir are also active for SRM, but these metals are usually too expensive to be applied in conventional industrial reformers. Developing appropriate methods to combine Ni-based catalysts with these noble metals to achieve both enhanced activity and catalyst resistance to carbon deposition seems like a cost-effective way and a promising subject of SRM study in the future.Catalysts improving carbon formation resistance Although the use of Ni-based catalysts for SRM is a relatively mature technology, catalyst deactivation through carbon formation, poisoning and sintering tends to occur on the Ni surface, which is an important challenge and is among the subjects of active research.133 Among them, carbon formation is the most common and significant challenge for Ni-based catalysts. Several types of carbon have been reported on the catalysts towards methane reforming and decomposition,150 with atomic carbon, encapsulating carbon, and filamentous carbon being the most important.151 It is generally accepted that the growth of filamentous carbon involves decomposition of the carbon-containing gas to carbon adsorbed on the metal surface, dissolution/segregation of carbon into the bulk, diffusion of carbon through Ni particles to surfaces that are suitable for filament growth, and precipitation of filaments.152 Chen et al.151 performed a microkinetic analysis of deactivation during DRM over Ni catalyst, where both filamentous carbon and encapsulating carbon were assumed to generate from a surface carbon (C*) precursor. The carbon formation was dependent on the concentration of surface C*, and different operating conditions affected the coking rate through changes in *C site coverage. It was suggested that the formation of monolayer encapsulating carbon blocked the active sites and hence deactivated the methane reforming, the filamentous carbon formation and the encapsulating carbon formation itself.The C* site coverage is an important parameter to characterize carbon formation. Both experimental and DFT studies of Nrskov and co-workers126,153 suggested that the nucleation of graphene on Ni catalysts was initiated at the stepped Ni(211) sites. If the surfaces or step edges are too small, the nucleation cannot proceed, thereby further inhibiting the graphene formation. This explains why very small particles cannot grow filamentous carbon under normal conditions. However, the recent microkinetic modeling of Wang et al.89 demonstrated carbon deposition on a Ni(100) surface (Fig. 11a). The absence of graphene formation on very small particles is related to the very low surface fraction of Ni(100), which is an energetically preferred facet of Ni for the formation of carbon. The carbon deposition phenomenon on Ni(100) has also been reported by Schouten et al. towards methane decomposition reaction.154,155 Moreover, Eizenberg and Blakely observed the formation of monolayer graphene on a Ni(100) surface in experiments.156,157 According to Fig. 11(a), in addition to Ni(100), the Rh(100), Pt(100) and Pd(100) surfaces as well as Rh(211) and Pd(211) surfaces could also suffer from carbon deposition because of the strong carbon binding energy. In contrast, the Ni(211) surface is poisoned primarily by surface O* due to relatively strong O binding energy (Fig. 11b). The active surface for carbon formation is, therefore, still under debate.High temperature and pressure are beneficial to the removal of carbon formation, based on the thermodynamic analysis.158,159 It was found that for temperatures above 1100 K there is no possibility of carbon formation for the steam-to-methane ratios above unity. For temperatures below 1100 K, carbon formation removal could be done by increasing the pressure. Therefore, for large-scale hydrogen production through SRM, the pressure is above 10 bar.Ni-based bimetallic catalysts by alloying Ni (the active metal) with another metal (e.g. Au,160 Ru,161 Rh,55 Co,162 Pt,163,164 Ag,165 and Sn166) are generally used to reduce methane dissociation and enhance the surface reaction of carbon removal, which could effectively increase catalyst resistance to deactivation and improve catalyst stability. Besenbacher et al.160 combined molecular beam scattering experiments, scanning tunneling microscopy (STM), and DFT calculations to design a surface alloy for steam reforming. It was demonstrated that alloying Au into the surface layer of Ni could effectively improve the catalyst performance, achieving high resistance to carbon formation, which was confirmed by experimental results. Nikolla et al.166 conducted a DFT study to investigate the effect of a Ni-containing alloy on C deposition relative to monometallic Ni and indicated that the growth of carbon deposits was inhibited by Sn alloying of Ni.Ni-Based bimetallic catalysts with alloy metals such as Ru, Rh, Pd, Ag, Pt, Cu, and Au were investigated by Fan et al.167 for methane dissociation. The DFT-calculated potential energy diagrams are shown in Fig. 12. They demonstrated that the Cu- and Ag-modified surfaces were energetically more favorable than the bare Ni surface for dissociation reactions. For CH4* dissociation, the activation barriers on Ru/Ni(111) (0.65 eV), Rh/Ni(111) (0.77 eV), and Cu/Ni(111) (0.88 eV) were lower than that on Ni(111) (0.92 eV). On the other hand, the DFT-calculated C adsorption energies on Pt/Ni(111), Pd/Ni(111), Au/Ni(111), and Rh/Ni(111) were less negative than that on Ni(111), indicating that coke formation was suppressed to a certain extent on these bimetallic catalysts. The NiRh bimetallic catalyst was therefore suggested as a good candidate for methane dissociation due to improvement in both activity and stability, which has been verified by experimental observations.168,169 Fig. 12 Potential energy diagrams for methane dissociation on Ni-based bimetallic surfaces. The chemisorbed H atoms required to balance adsorption states have been omitted to simplify the notation.167 Reproduced from ref. 167 with permission from AIP Publishing, copyright 2012.Xu et al.170 studied the effect of Ag on the control of Ni-catalyzed carbon formation by DFT calculations. The addition of Ag into Ni catalysts reduced the catalytic activity towards SRM but enhanced coke formation resistance. Liu et al.171 reported that segregated NiCu was a good SRM catalyst to suppress coke formation, which displayed the highest carbon deposition resistance among Ni, Fe, Co, Cu, NiFe, NiCo, NiCu, and segregated NiCu catalysts via DFT study. Yoon et al.135 compared Ni, NiRu, and NiRh bimetallic catalysts for SRM through DFT calculations, which demonstrated that alloying Ni with Ru could be an effective way to greatly enhance the catalytic efficiency and reduce carbon deposition. Niu et al.92 performed DFT studies on Ni, Pt, and Ni@Pt catalysts for SRM reaction, which revealed that coreshell structured Ni@Pt showed a lower activation barrier for CH and C oxidation but a higher activation barrier for CH dissociation to form C. The Ni@Pt catalyst was found to significantly inhibit carbon formation without sacrificing much activity. To summarize, the NiRh, NiRu, and NiPt alloys are promising bimetallic catalysts to effectively increase catalyst resistance to carbon deposition without sacrificing much activity or even with enhanced activity for SRM reaction.
2.2.2 Dry reforming of methane Dry reforming of methane is a promising technology to covert greenhouse gases (CH4 and CO2) to synthesis gas (H2 and CO) for the manufacture of value-added products.49,51,172 Dry reforming of methane has not been an industrially mature process so far. It is an extremely highly endothermic reaction (2.56 eV). Therefore, very high reaction temperatures (as high as 1173 K) are required to attain high synthesis gas yields. The high temperature leads to rapid carbon formation, and thus catalyst deactivation. Moreover, the requirement for pure CO2 and the long reaction time make DRM still need further development.62 Ni-Based catalysts are commonly used for this reaction. However, these catalysts tend to undergo carbon deposition and sintering and lose their activity. To overcome this problem, the use of different supports, promoters, and Ni-based bimetallic catalysts has been investigated by many researchers. Here, we summarize the DRM mechanism from kinetic, DFT and microkinetic modeling points of view, with emphasis put on Ni-based catalysts. Reaction mechanism of DRM The mechanism of DRM over Ni catalysts has been extensively investigated experimentally. The isotopic kinetics study of Wei and Iglesia80 indicated that the initial CH bond activation of methane was the sole kinetically-relevant step for DRM on Ni catalysts. However, some other researchers argued that carbon oxidation,173175 the surface reaction between CHx* and O*,176 or CHxO decomposition177,178 could be the RDS for Ni-based catalysts. The controversial observation could be related to the factor that the mechanism is a function of operating conditions. Using transient isotopic approaches and microkinetic modeling, Aparicio125 suggested that there was no single RDS in methane reforming over Ni catalysts. Under certain conditions, the availability of surface oxygen may play a key role in determining the rate. Bradford and Vannice179 proposed a reaction model for DRM, where CH4 dissociation and CHxO decomposition were assumed as RDSs, which correlates experimental data successfully. The same RDSs were obtained by Nandini et al.180 over the NiK/CeO2Al2O3 catalyst. The kinetic study of Cui et al.181 indicated that CH4 dissociation was the RDS at low temperature, while the reaction between CO2 and CHx became the RDS at high temperature. Zhang et al.182 developed a LangmuirHinshelwood (LH) model, assuming CH4 dissociation and the reaction between activated CO2 and the C species as RDSs over a NiCo/AlMgO catalyst, which agrees well with the experimental data. Despite the numerous experimental studies devoted to investigating the mechanism of DRM, there are still arguments between different researchers. The theoretical studies were therefore employed to further elucidate the reaction mechanism of DRM.
The theoretical DRM mechanism is usually interpreted in terms of CH4 activation, CO2 activation, and CO formation. CH4 activation was generally believed to take place via the direct dissociation route, which has been reviewed in detail in Section 2.1.1. CO formation pathways are the same as those in SRM reaction. CH* and C* are the critical intermediates for surface oxidation by O* or OH*. CO2 activation is the key step that is different from SRM.
CO2 activation Concerning CO2 activation, the direct decomposition (CO2  CO + O) and H-induced CO2 decomposition (CO2 + H  COOH  CO + OH) were considered by Zhu et al.93 on a Ni(111) surface. The geometries of the initial states, intermediates, and transition states for CO2 decomposition obtained from DFT calculations are shown in Fig. 13(af). The total energy and free energy diagrams for the two routes on the Ni(111) surface are given in Fig. 13(g). It was observed that the CO2 direct decomposition was energetically more favorable than H-induced CO2 decomposition. The CO2 direct decomposition was also supported by Jiao and co-workers on both Ni(111) and Ni(211) surfaces.81,82,183,184 Fig. 13 Geometries of (a) the physisorbed CO2 on Ni(111), (b) the chemisorbed CO2 on Ni(111), (c) the transition state for CO2 decomposition via the direct pathway, (d) the transition state for the H-inducted CO2 decomposition, (e) the intermediate for the H-induced CO2 decomposition, and (f) the transition state for COOH dissociation to generate CO and OH, and (g) total energy and Gibbs free energy diagrams for the CO2 direct decomposition and H-induced CO2 decomposition on Ni(111).93 Reproduced from ref. 93 with permission from Elsevier, copyright 2009.
CO2 activation on other metals has also attracted some attention.185,186 Ko et al.185 systematically investigated CO2 activation and dissociation on a series of pure metal surfaces and bimetallic alloy surfaces by using DFT calculations. The scaling relations (Fig. 14a) were obtained, where the reaction heat ΔE(CO2δ) of CO2 dissociation scaled linearly with the sum of the adsorption heats of CO and O over various pure metal surfaces. Meanwhile, the BEP relationships were suitable (see Fig. 14b), with the CO2δ dissociation barrier linearly correlated with ΔE(CO2δ). In light of this fact, the activation energies of CO2 dissociation over pure metal and bimetallic surfaces could be rapidly predicted by combining the surface mixing rule, scaling relation, and BEP relationship, as illustrated in Fig. 14(c). The barrier increases from left to right and from top to bottom. Fe, Ru, Co, Ni, Rh, and Ir pure metals as well as Fe-, Ru-, Co-, Ni-, Rh-, and Ir-based bimetallic alloys exhibited relatively low E act a values (0.75 eV). Pd, Pt, and Cu pure metals as well as Ru-, Co-, Ni-, Rh-, Ir-, and Cu-based bimetallic alloys showed moderate E act a values (0.761.50 eV). Au and Ag pure metals as well as Pd-, Pt-, and Cu-based bimetallic alloys were observed to take high E act a values (1.51 eV).
Fig. 14 (a) Scaling relations between Eads(CO) + Eads(O) and ΔE(CO2δ) on TM surfaces. (b) BEP relationships for CO2δ dissociation. (c) CO2 activation pathways and screening for E act a for CO2 dissociation on pure metals and bimetallic alloys. Gray cells indicate that the bimetallic alloys are not preferred for the surface segregation of solute atoms. Here, E act a is estimated by combining the BEP relation, scaling relation, and surface mixing rule.185 Reproduced from ref. 185 with permission from the American Chemical Society, copyright 2016.
Support and promoter effects are important factors in facilitating CO2 activation. Kattel et al.187 combined DFT calculations, kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) simulations, and experimental measurements to investigate CO2 hydrogenation over Pt, Pt/SiO2, and Pt/TiO2 catalysts. It was found that Pt NPs alone were not able to catalyze CO2 activation due to the weak bonding with CO2. Once CO2 was stabilized, for example by using SiO2 or defected TiO2 with O vacancy as the support for Pt NPs, the overall CO2 conversion would be enhanced via increased CO2 binding. Pt/TiO2 exhibited more significant enhancement than Pt/SiO2 and thus higher activity. Yang et al.188 studied the reduction of CO2 by hydrogen over Au/TiO2 and Au/CeOx/TiO2 surfaces. On Au3/TiO2, the reaction was suppressed by the relatively large barrier (1.23 eV) for the activation of *CO2 to **CO2, which was significantly promoted in the presence of CeOx (0.16 eV). On Au/CeOx/TiO2, an electronic metalsupport interaction resulted in a charge redistribution in the metal around the Auceria interface. Such surface electronic polarization at the metaloxide interface enhanced both CO2 adsorption and activation. Niu et al.189 employed both kinetic studies and DFT calculations to investigate the effect of oxide additives (CeO2, ZrO2, ZnO) on hydrotalcite-derived Ni catalysts for DRM reaction. Regarding CO2 activation, the apparent activation energies obtained from the Arrhenius plot for CeO2Ni (0.62 eV) and ZrO2Ni (0.64 eV) were lower than that of Ni (0.68 eV). In contrast, ZnONi exhibited a higher activation barrier (0.77 eV) than Ni. It was suggested that the addition of CeO2 and ZrO2 could lower the CO2 activation energy on Ni catalyst, thus promoting CO2 dissociation to CO and O. The authors also calculated the TOF based on Gibbs free energy, which was 5.92 s1 at 1023 K for CO2 activation on the support, very close to the experimental value (6.13 s1 at 1023 K), but much higher than that on the Ni surface (4.42 × 106 s1). This demonstrated that the oxides played a significant role in CO2 activation in DRM reaction.
For the overall DRM reaction, DFT-based microkinetic modeling was applied to explore the mechanism on various metal surfaces such as Ni(111),85,94 Ni(100),94 Ni(211),94 Pt(111),85,190 and Pd(111).85 Regardless of the catalyst surface, direct dissociation was favored for CH bond activation of methane. Direct dissociation is a preferred route for CO2 activation on Ni,85,94 but the H-assisted route via the COOH* intermediate is preferred for Pt and Pd catalysts.85,190 However, different preferred routes for CO formation such as C* + O* on Ni,94 CH* + O* on Ni(111), Pt(111) and Pt(111),85 and CH* + OH* on Pt(111)190 were proposed by different studies. The mechanism is very similar to the one of SRM. The RDS was dependent on operating conditions. At high CH4 and CO2 partial pressures, carbon oxidation was suggested as the RDS, while at low pressures, both CH4 dissociative adsorption and C oxidation would jointly determine the overall reaction rate for the DRM reaction.94 Since DRM has attracted more and more attention due to environmental effects, the DRM mechanism is still under debate, and more theoretical studies are essential to gain insight into the reaction, further aiding the rational design of catalysts.
Metal dependence of activity Like SRM, the DRM reaction is active on metal catalysts, such as Ni, Ru, Rh, Pt, Pd, Ir, and Co.123,191193 As discussed above, the CH activation and CH and/or C reaction with surface O* are kinetically relevant steps in DRM. Besides, the CO2 activation leading to surface O* formation is a function of support. Therefore, the metal dependence of the dry reforming activity depends also on the support used. RostrupNielsen and Bak Hansen obtained an activity tendency on a TOF basis as Ru > Rh > Ni > Ir > Pt > Pd on a MgO support123 like SRM.127 Solymosi et al. reported an activity (in terms of turnover number) trend in the order of Ru > Pd > Rh > Pt > Ir on an Al2O3 support for the DRM process.193 Ferreira-Aparicio et al. observed a TOF tendency of Rh > Ni > Ir > RuPt > Co on an Al2O3 support, and Ni > Ru > RhIr > CoPt on a SiO2 support.191 Although the metal performances have some differences among different supports and different studies, Ni catalyst is of particular interest in DRM because it is less expensive than noble metals and exhibits relatively high activity.63 Size dependence of activity The kinetic study of Wei and Iglesia75,80 illustrated a positive size-dependent activity for DRM on Pt, Ir, Ni, Rh, and Ru catalysts, namely the smaller the metal NPs, the higher the activities. The size dependence of the activity of DRM is similar to the one of SRM, as discussed in Section 2.2.1. Similarly, Lustemberg et al.194 reported that Niceria systems involving the smallest highly dispersed Ni particles were more efficient for methane activation and reforming than larger particles. This is related to the strong metalsupport interactions, which affect the charge transfer between Ni particles and ceria. Small Ni particles on stoichiometric ceria undergo large electronic perturbations, which lead to a relatively low activation barrier of the first CH bond cleavage of methane, compared to extended Ni surfaces. However, recently, Vogt et al.195 established a volcano behavior of size-dependent activity for SRM and DRM at 773 and 873 K, and 5 bar, where the optimal Ni particle size was approximately 23 nm. Ni particles smaller than 2.5 nm exhibited a different structure sensitivity from that expected from the above literature. CH4 activation, CO2 activation, and CO formation were possibly important kinetically limiting steps for DRM. Catalyst improvement Carbon formation on Ni-based catalysts is the main obstacle to the commercialization of DRM.140 To investigate the carbon formation scheme on Ni-based catalysts, Wang et al.140 compared the whole reaction network of DRM over flat Ni(111) and step Ni(211) surfaces, as well as flat Ni3C(001) and step Ni3C(111) by DFT calculations. The kinetic analysis illustrated an activity order of Ni(111) > Ni3C(001) > Ni(211) > Ni3C(111) for DRM. That is, flat surfaces were more active than step surfaces, and metallic Ni catalysts were more active than nickel carbide. Therefore, the formation of nickel carbide would reduce the catalytic activity on both flat and step surfaces. With respect to carbon formation, the authors suggested that the rate ratio of the CH oxidation route to the C oxidation route (rCH/rC) coupled with the CO dissociation barrier could be used to measure the carbon formation probability. Ni(111) was found to exhibit both the highest activity and the best carbon resistance.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


What are the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes, and how do these advancements address the challenges in catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 