<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing the NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and consequently the electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content, up to 3-7%, the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease continuously, which is in agreement with a modification of the active sites both in nature and number. The catalytic sites appear more active but less numerous and the rate of ethane conversion thus decrease. In parallel the selectivity to ethylene strongly increases. At higher Nb content, the apparent activation energy, selectivity to ethylene and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion remained almost constant. The active sites are not modified anymore and since the specific surface area of the catalysts continues to increase, the conversion of ethane increases. The best yields are consequently observed for the Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound. Above 15% of Nb, the inactive phase NiNb2O6 is formed and the catalytic properties are not optimal anymore. The results obtained show that surface interaction with niobium oxide is not the only way to lower the Oconcentration at the surface of NiO but partial reduction with oxalic acid thermally decomposed during preparation, has also to be considered. The stability on stream of the catalysts has been studied. A continuous monotonous decrease in the activity of all the catalysts was observed over various periods of time. These deactivations over time on stream have been explained by the formation of the NiNb2O6 phase and the reduction of the oxygen over-stoichiometry of NiO to a point where no more Oactive species were present at the surface of NiO.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.铌氧化物的多种性质,包括它们的各种稳定形式和氧化态,通过降低NiO的过量氧含量和因此降低电荷性O物种的浓度,影响它们在乙烷氧化脱氢中作为NiO催化剂掺杂剂的行为。在低Nb含量下,高达3-7%,表观活化能和乙烷转化的内在速率连续下降,这与活性位点的性质和数量的改变一致。催化位点似乎更活跃,但数量较少,因此乙烷转化率下降。同时,乙烯的选择性显著增加。在更高的Nb含量下,表观活化能、乙烯的选择性和乙烷转化的内在速率几乎保持不变。活性位点不再改变,由于催化剂的比表面积继续增加,乙烷的转化率增加。因此,观察到Ni0.85Nb0.15O化合物的最佳产率。超过15%的Nb,形成不活跃的NiNb2O6相,催化性能不再最佳。获得的结果表明,铌氧化物的表面相互作用不是降低NiO表面O浓度的唯一途径,在制备过程中热分解的草酸盐的部分还原也必须考虑在内。研究了催化剂在流中的稳定性。在不同的时间跨度内观察到所有催化剂的活性连续单调下降。这些随时间在流中发生的失活被解释为NiNb2O6相的形成和NiO的过量氧含量的减少,达到NiO表面不再存在活性O物种的点。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
