<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing the NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and consequently the electrophilic Ospecies concentration. At low Nb content, up to 3-7%, the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease continuously, which is in agreement with a modification of the active sites both in nature and number. The catalytic sites appear more active but less numerous and the rate of ethane conversion thus decrease. In parallel the selectivity to ethylene strongly increases. At higher Nb content, the apparent activation energy, selectivity to ethylene and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion remained almost constant. The active sites are not modified anymore and since the specific surface area of the catalysts continues to increase, the conversion of ethane increases. The best yields are consequently observed for the Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound. Above 15% of Nb, the phase inactive NiNb2O6 phase is formed and the relative content in active phase starts to decrease. The stability on stream of the catalysts has been studied. A continuous monotonous decrease in the activity of all the catalysts was observed over various periods of time. These deactivations over time on stream have been explained by the formation of the NiNb2O6 phase and the reduction of the oxygen over-stoichiometry of NiO to a point where no more Oactive species were present at the surface of NiO. The diverse properties of niobium oxides, including their various stable forms and oxidation states, influence their behavior as dopants in NiO catalysts for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by affecting the surface interaction between the NiO active phase and an amorphous Nb2O5 phase. The efficiency of the catalysts is related to this surface interaction. The thermal decomposition of oxalate ions, present due to the use of ammonium oxalato niobate as the niobium precursor, induces a reduction in NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry, which also influences the catalytic properties. Only a small percent of Nb is necessary to have these effects. The optimal activity observed for 15% of Nb is related to the decrease in the active phase particle size induced by the amorphous Nb2O5 phase, which prevents the sintering of the active phase particles during the thermal transformation of the catalyst precursors. Above 15% of Nb, the amorphous phase reacts with the nickel oxide to form an inactive mixed niobium and nickel oxide phase NiNb2O6. The study of the catalytic properties over long periods of time showed that the NiNbO catalysts underwent a slow but systematic deactivation, attributed to the continuous reduction of the NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry in the reaction conditions and to the formation of the NiNb2O6 phase thermodynamically stable at the catalytic reaction temperature. Attempt to regenerate the catalysts has failed.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          铌氧化物的多样性质，包括它们的各种稳定形式和氧化态，通过降低NiO的氧过量和因此降低电亲性O物种的浓度，影响它们在NiO催化剂中作为乙烷氧化脱氢的掺杂剂的行为。在低Nb含量下，高达3-7%，表观活化能和乙烷转化的内在速率连续下降，这与活性位点的性质和数量的改变相一致。催化位点似乎更活跃，但数量较少，因此乙烷转化率下降。同时，乙烯的选择性大大增加。在更高的Nb含量下，表观活化能、乙烯的选择性和乙烷转化的内在速率几乎保持不变。活性位点不再被修改，由于催化剂的比表面积继续增加，乙烷的转化率增加。因此，Ni0.85Nb0.15O化合物观察到最好的产率。超过15%的Nb，形成不活跃的NiNb2O6相，活性相的相对含量开始下降。研究了催化剂在流中的稳定性。在不同的时间内观察到所有催化剂的活性连续单调下降。这些随时间在流中的失活被解释为NiNb2O6相的形成和NiO的氧过量减少到表面NiO上不再有O活性物种的程度。铌氧化物的多种性质,包括它们的各种稳定形式和氧化态,通过影响NiO活性相与无定形Nb2O5相之间的表面相互作用,影响它们在乙烷氧化脱氢中作为NiO催化剂掺杂剂的行为。催化剂的效率与这种表面相互作用有关。由于使用了铌酸铵草酸盐作为铌前体,草酸根离子的存在,伴随着上述表面相互作用,草酸根离子的热分解导致NiO氧过量减少,这也影响了催化性能。只需要少量的Nb就能产生这些效果。观察到15%的Nb具有最佳活性,这与无定形Nb2O5相导致的活性相粒径减小有关,该相在催化剂前体的热转化过程中防止了活性相粒子的烧结。当Nb含量超过15%时,无定形相与氧化镍反应,形成不活跃的混合铌镍氧化物相NiNb2O6。对催化剂在长时间内的催化性能的研究表明,NiNbO催化剂经历了缓慢但系统的失活,这归因于反应条件下NiO氧过量的连续减少以及在催化反应温度下热力学稳定的NiNb2O6相的形成。尝试再生催化剂失败了。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
