I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Perturbation of Reactivity with Geometry: How Far Can We Go?
Interest in transition-metal alloys as opposed to monometallic catalysts has grown in the years following the inspiring work of John Sinfelt. The intrinsic complexity of these systems allows us to better tailor reaction selectivity and to tune the reactivity of one metal by the presence of another. One of the early themes of the Sinfelt work was the invocation of reaction ensembles to explain differences in hydrogenolysis behavior between monometallic and bimetallic systems. (1) However, it was also recognized from the beginning that perturbation of reactivity through alloying involved both geometric effects involving creation of specific reaction ensembles (atomistic sites) and electronic effects due to changes in electron density and bonding due to charge transfer and hybridization effects in alloying. For the purposes of this Viewpoint, the term electronic effect will refer to the strength of an adsorbate interaction with the metal surface, while a geometric effect refers to the bonding configuration. This perspective will comment upon the interplay between the two effects and potential for exploiting geometric effects in alloying.
Norskov and co-workers have established relationships with regard to the adsorption behavior of d-band transition metals on the basis of the energy of the d-band center with respect to the Fermi level. (2) One observation from Norskov and Hammer is that since all transition metals in principle have the same s occupancy (and p-occupancy for that matter), then the s electron is not considered to be important in the bonding of the system, as its effect is identical for all d-band transition metals. The perturbation of the d-band can be broken down into two terms: a charge transfer effect where the filling of the d-band changes due to a charge transfer event between the metals and a hybridization effect due to the change in the overlap between the orbitals due to the change in nuclear distance and change in orbital extent when one metal is replaced for another. (3) For most d-band transition metal alloys the degree of charge transfer is insignificant and the alloy is dominated by changes in hybridization. The changes in hybridization can manifest themselves in different ways. For example, the PdM bond distance in Pd is 2.74 Å, but in the alloy PdNi bonds are 2.63 Å. This contraction results in a shift of the d-band of Pd states away from the Fermi level from 2.01 eV in Pd to 2.48 eV in the alloy. Similarly, in PdAu, the PdAu bond expands to 2.86 Å, and the d-band shifts accordingly toward the Fermi level to 1.64 eV. On the basis of these examples, in a PdPt alloy, one would expect the Pd d-band center to shift toward the Fermi level due to the larger lattice constant of Pt in comparison to Pd. However, the d-band center shifts instead slightly away from the Fermi level to 2.23 eV due to the increased overlap between Pd and Pt from the larger orbital extent of Pt (3.79 vs 3.48 Å), (4) demonstrating that both orbital extent and equilibrium bond distance determine electronic structure. It should be noted the electronic structure of the alloying element also shifts in response to the alloying event (in this case the d-band center of Pt shifts from 2.55 to 2.34 eV).Once the perturbation of the d-band due to alloying is known, the adsorption behavior of alloys (to a first approximation) can be described by average d-band filling of the metal atoms in contact with the adsorbate. (5) This simple model has been shown to provide effective guidance for understanding catalytic performance in a number of systems, as the adsorbate binding strength (and by extension the d-band center) can be correlated with its activation on the metal surface. (6) When a d-band transition metal is alloyed with a nontransition metal (hereafter described as sp-electron metals), charge transfer can be significant. (7) Charge transfer may result in filling of the d-band for the d-band transition metal, stabilizing the d-orbitals and shifting them to lower energy, resulting in a depletion of d-orbital density near the Fermi level. For example, in the case of PdZn, the d-band center of Pd shifts from 2.01 to 2.62 eV on alloying with zinc. Coincidentally the d-band center of Pt is 2.55 eV and therefore, if one naively applied the d-band center model in this case, then a simple adsorbate such as CO should bind with the same energy on a Pd atom in the PdZn(111) surface as it does on Pt(111). However, instead the adsorption energy of CO on a Pd atop site on PdZn(111) is 0.83 eV and the adsorption energy of CO on a Pt atop site on Pt(111) is 1.90 eV (CO prefers the atop site on both of these surfaces, and in fact the presence of the PdZn alloy can be deduced from the loss of bridge sites that are preferred for CO adsorption on monometallic Pd). (8) As the d-band center model proposed by Norskov and co-workers relies upon the concept that d-orbitals extend up to the Fermi level, the d-band center is no longer a good descriptor for the adsorption event. In plots of the d-bands of Pd, Pd in PdZn, and Pt, it is evident in Figure 1 that although Pt and PdZn may have similar d-band centers, the presence of Zn results in both a shift and a narrowing of the density of states with nearly complete depletion of d-electron density near the Fermi level, demonstrating a large electronic modification from the alloying event. In addition, Bader charge analysis indicates a charge transfer of 0.41 e from Zn into Pd. Other sp-electron metal combinations with d-band transition metals give similar results for d-band center shifts (for example, for Pd, the d-band centers of PdGa and PdGe are 2.73 and 3.08 eV, respectively, while the Bader charges show donation of 0.29 and 0.47 e into Pd, respectively). Recently Montemore and Medlin have shown that electronic effects of the s- and p-electrons in metals and their interactions with adsorbates can be accounted for by a more complete treatment of orbital overlap terms that describe their bonding interactions with the surface. (9) Critical deviations between scaling of the d-band center with OH and CH adsorption can be accounted for by evaluating the additional terms, and new correlative relations can be developed. This approach outlined by Montemore and Medlin could potentially be extended to systems with metals with sp-electron valence with equal success, as now terms involving the s- and p-character of the metal become quite significant. This method could aid in the screening of these alloys for catalytic applications.
Although electronic modification of adsorbate binding strength has been demonstrated to affect catalysis positively, (10) a common problem is often evident in that the strengths of all reactants and products are affected in a similar manner, which may limit the degree to which improvements can be made. For example, Norskov and co-workers have shown that the binding energies of CO and HCO are correlated in CO2 reduction, which limits one to a single correlative relationship in reactivity. (11) Even moving to systems with chemical intermediates of a different nature such as HCN synthesis, Grabow and co-workers found that reactivity could be described by scaling relationships of N and C binding to the surface. (6c) All monometallic surfaces examined showed behavior clustered in a broad line, which therefore limited the maximum selectivity that could be achieved. Similarly, for formic acid decomposition, selectivity to H2 formation can be correlated to the binding energy of CO vs OH. (12) Although judicious choices in alloying can be made to maximize selectivity, there remains a fairly narrow range of behavior that can be accessed. Thus, while these alloys may exhibit behavior that lies outside bounds set by their monometallic component surfaces, the behavior is still correlated directly to their electronic structure. (13) In order to break from these relationships, the bonding configuration of the adsorbate must be perturbed (in contrast to only changing the strength of adsorbate binding). At least three pathways for changing geometry have emerged in the literature over the course of the past few years: (1) intermetallic compounds, (2) single-atom alloys (SAAs), and (3) coadsorbed structural modifiers.
Intermetallic compounds lend themselves well to changing adsorbate configuration. Unlike homogeneous alloys (fully miscible solid solutions, often called random alloys), the metals are located in distinct positions within a unit cell such that the spatial relationship between the metal atoms is fixed. Furthermore, these systems have an enthalpic driving force (often driven by charge transfer) to remain in their prescribed positions, which prevents (or at least retards) surface segregation in response to adsorption events (which often plague homogeneous alloys). Knowledge of the precise atomic locations also lends study of intermetallic surfaces to theoretical examination. A recent review highlights many examples of improved catalytic performance for intermetallic compounds when compared to their monometallic cousins. (14) PtSn is the primary example of an intermetallic system (multiple intermetallic compounds of PtSn exist with varying stoichiometry) that has found extensive use in the field. For example, PtSn alloys have found use commercially in hydrocarbon re-forming (15) and propane dehydrogenation, (16) while academics have demonstrated their success in selective hydrogenation (17) and CO-tolerant fuel cell electrodes. (18) While formation of an intermetallic phase is often speculated rather than proven in supported nanoparticle catalysis, the rich phase diagram allows, in principle, the tuning of the ensemble size to some degree to perturb adsorbate geometry. For example, Table 1 shows a group of PtSn surfaces that have been examined using density functional theory, showing the switch from di-σ-bonded C2H4 to π-bonded C2H4 as the tin content increases. Similarly, only a very small amount of Sn dramatically decreases the binding strength of toluene due to the disturbance of the proper ensemble for adsorption of the aromatic ring.
Table 1. Adsorption Energies of Toluene and Ethylene on Various Low-Energy Surfaces of PtSn Alloysa
C2H4
surface adsorption energy (eV) adsorption confign C7H8 adsorption energy (eV) Pt(111) 1.64 di σ 2.37 Pt3Sn(111) 1.48 di σ 1.06 Pt2Sn(111) 1.07 di σ 0.66 PtSn(110) 0.75 π 0.75 Pt2Sn3(110) 0.73 π 0.61 PtSn2(110) 0.36 π 0.60


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do geometric and electronic effects in transition-metal alloys synergistically influence catalytic performance, and what innovative strategies can be developed to exploit this interplay in designing more efficient, selective, and tunable catalytic systems that outperform traditional monometallic catalysts?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 