I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


JOURNAL OF CATAL
YSIS 178, 299308 (1998)
ARTICLE NO. CA982152
The Synthesis and Characterization of Mesoporous High-Surface Area Ceria Prepared Using a Hybrid Organic/Inorganic Route Daniela Terribile,Alessandro Trovarelli,,1 Jordi Llorca, Carla de Leitenburg,and Giuliano Dolcetti Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnologie Chimiche, Universit a di Udine, via Cotonificio 108, 33100 Udine, Italy; and Departament de Qu mica Inorg anica, Universitat de Barcelona, Diagonal 647, 08028 Barcelona, Spain Received March 9, 1998; revised May 12, 1998; accepted May 12, 1998 The synthesis, characterization, and proposed formation mecha- nism of mesoporous high surface area ceria is described. It is shown that the reaction of cerium salts under basic conditions with am- monia in the presence of a cationic surfactant results in the pre- cipitation of a gelatinous hydrous cerium oxide/surfactant mixture,which after drying and calcination gives pure, high surface area,fluorite-structured CeO2. Although ceria does not show long range mesoscopic organization, it exhibits a broad arrangement of meso- pores in the region 2080 A with a maximum located at around 3540
A. HRTEM detected very small crystalline CeO2 particles
with an approximate dimension of 2050
A. This ceria shows en-
hanced textural and thermal resistance features compared with ceria prepared by conventional routes. Surface areas in excess of 200 m2/g are obtained after calcination at T = 723 K, which drop to ca 40 m2/g after calcination at T > 1173 K; this highlights its better potential to operate as a catalyst support or promoter under medium/high temperature range. It is suggested that the cationic surfactant does not act as a true templating agent but as a surface- area enhancer by incorporation into the hydrous oxide and lowering of the surface tension of water in the pores during drying. c 1998 Academic Press
INTRODUCTION
Cerium oxide is currently being used as a promoter or support in several industrial catalytic processes and as a key component in the formulation of catalysts for the con- trol of noxious emissions from mobile sources (12). The unique redox features of ceria, like the ability to shift be- tween CeO2 and CeO2x under reaction conditions, con- tribute to its success, especially when ceria is used as a com- ponent of the so called three-way catalysts (TWC).
In all commercial applications, stability of textural prop- erties and resistance to sintering after aging play an impor- tant role. It has been recognized that thermal aging and loss of surface area are among the main causes of deactiva- tion of ceria, especially in TWC (3). Various strategies have been pursued to develop ceria with enhanced textural and 1 Corresponding author. E-mail: trovarelli@dstc.uniud.it. thermal properties: one is to support CeO2 on inert carri- ers such as Al2O3, and another is the development of new methodologies for the preparation of cerium oxide with improved surface area and enhanced resistance to aging.
Some of the approaches that have been recently applied to prepare powdered cerium oxide are homogeneous precip- itation techniques with different precipitating agents and additives (47), hydrothermal synthesis (8), spray pyroly- sis methods (9), inert gas condensation of Ce followed by oxidation (10), thermal decomposition of carbonates (11),microemulsion (12), and electrochemical methods (13). In all these cases, cerium oxide with surface area not exceeding 100 m2/g at the lowest calcination temperatures (T < 773 K) were reported and only in a few cases were surface areas close to 200 m2/g observed (5, 12). Generally, a severe loss of surface area is caused by thermal treatment of conventional CeO2 at moderate temperatures (973 K < T < 1073 K) (14).This drop in surface area can be partially reduced if ceria is doped with rare earth or transition metals (15). Proprietary methods of preparation allow the stability range of ceria to be widened enough to reach temperatures of 1100 K with- out severe loss of surface area (16). It therefore appears that the preparation of high surface area, thermally resis- tant ceria may have great potential in the development of new redox catalysts.An interesting approach to the preparation of meso- porous, high surface area materials was recently reported by scientists at Mobil for the preparation of a new family of mesoporous molecular sieves, designated M41S (17). This consists of using organic molecules, such as surfactants, as templating agents for the creation of a 3D array with regu- lar structure. This approach has so far been applied to the preparation of transition metal oxides like ZrO2 (1821), TiO2 (22), Nb2O5 (23), using different organic molecules as templating agents. Anionic, cationic, or amphoteric surfac- tants have been employed with success in the preparation of high-surface area materials. In a few cases, ordered pore structure was obtained after calcination (21, 23) but in the majority of cases the structure was observed to collapse upon calcination (18, 19). In addition in recent years, high 299 0021-9517/98 $25.00 Copyright c 1998 by Academic Press All rights of reproduction in any form reserved. 300
TERRIBILE ET AL.
surface area, mesoporous materials have attracted much at- tention because of their physical and chemical properties,which are significantly different from those of bulk materi- als (24).
As a part of a broader project aimed at preparing cata- lysts containing CeO2 with improved textural and redox/ catalytic properties, we are investigating the possibility of synthesizing mesoporous CeO2 using organic molecules acting as surface area enhancers or pseudo-templating agents. The approach we are using exploits the interac- tion of hydrous cerium oxide with a cationic surfactant un- der basic conditions to promote exchange reaction with hy- droxy surface groups. A preliminary account has recently appeared (25). Herein we report details of the preparation and the textural and morphological characterization of high surface area mesoporous ceria prepared using surfactants.
In a forthcoming paper, details of the redox chemistry and catalytic redox properties of this cerium oxide will be pre- sented.
EXPERIMENTAL
Synthesis of CeO2 In a typical preparation, an aqueous ammonia solution (250 ml of NH3, 25 wt%) was added dropwise over ca 2.5 h to a stirred solution of CeCl3 • 7H2O (Aldrich) containing cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide (Aldrich) as surfactant (the solution was prepared with 11.2 g of CeCl3 • 7H2O and
9.4 g of surfactant in 550 ml of water, which represents a 1.2
molar ratio Ce/surfactant). Ammonia was added at 293 K and the pH of the solution varied from the initial value of 2.5 to a final value of 11.4. This caused the precipita- tion of hydrous cerium oxide as a gelatinous pale yellow solid. After precipitation, the slurry was stirred for one fur- ther hour and then the mixture was sealed in a glass vessel and placed in a thermostatic bath at 363 K for 90 h under continuous stirring. The mixture was then cooled at room temperature and the precipitate filtered and washed, first with water (1.5 liter) and then with acetone (500 ml). This procedure was used in order to better remove the surfac- tant not incorporated within the oxide. The resulting yellow powder was dried at 333 K for 24 h in an oven and calcined in a tubular furnace (ID 50 mm, length 900 mm) for at least 2 h at different temperatures (6231273 K, with a heat- ing rate of 10 K/min). The calcination was carried out with an air flow (0.2 liters/min, STP) passing over the sample placed in a quartz dish inside the furnace. The yield, cal- culated by assuming the composition reported in Table 1 was 93.1%. Similar syntheses were performed by varying reaction pH (913), the cerium salt (nitrate vs chloride, Ce3+ vs Ce4+), Ce/surfactant ratio (0.61.25), reaction time (090 h), and the surfactant (we used alkyltrimethylam- monium bromides or chlorides with a carbon chain length
TABLE 1
Stoichiometry of Ce-surfactant before Calcination: CeOx-(ONC19H42)n • yH2Oa pH n y SA (m2/g)b 9
0.035
0.2
93
11.4
0.06
0.4
195 13
0.12
0.8
231 a Reaction time 90 h, T = 363 K. Samples were dried at 343 K for 15 h. b Surface area after calcination at 723 K. varying from 14 to 18 carbon atoms). Cerium oxide pre- pared using this procedure (hereafter called HSA CeO2) was compared to CeO2 prepared by conventional precip- itation with ammonia (CVZ CeO2) by using the process described above without the addition of surfactant.
Characterization Thetexturalpropertiesandporosityofceriumoxidewere studied by adsorption of nitrogen at 77 K with a Carlo Erba Sorptomatic1900instrument.Surfaceareaswerecalculated by the BET method and pore size distribution was analyzed using the desorption branch of the isotherm and the Dol- limore/Heal method. Thermal decomposition of the solid was studied by thermogravimetry (TG/DTA) using a Net- zsch STA equipment. Samples (ca 200 mg) were heated in an alumina crucible from room temperature to 1473 K at a rate of 10 K/min.
Samplemicrostructurewasinvestigatedbyscanningelec- tron microscopy (SEM) as well as by conventional and high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM).
SEM was carried out on a Leica LC-360 instrument using an accelerating voltage of 10 kV. Samples of the materi- als were mechanically deposited on the holders and sub- sequently gold coated to reduce charge buildup. High res- olution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) was performed on a Philips CM-30 instrument using axial illu- mination by 300 kV electrons. Samples of the catalysts were suspended in methanol and transferred to copper grids cov- ered with perforated carbon film as they were dipped into the suspensions. A top entry double tilt specimen holder was used in all cases.
Powder X-ray analysis was carried out with a Siemens powder diffractometer using Cu-Kα radiation (λ =
1.5418
A) by placing samples in aluminum sample hold- ers and collecting the diffractogram over a 14-h period from 22 = 2075 with a 0.02step size. For low angle X- ray diffraction a Philips PW1830 instrument with Ni-filtered Cu-Kα radiation was used with a position sensitive detector (Anton Paar K. G.). FT-IR spectra were collected using a Digilab FT-40 spectrometer. Samples were mixed with KBr and pressed into a wafer for measurements.
PREPARATION OF MESOPOROUS CERIA
301
RESULTS
Preparation and Characterization of CeO2 The reaction of cerium salts (either chloride or nitrate) under basic conditions with ammonia at room temperature resultsintheprecipitationofgelatinous,hydrousceriumox- ide. If the reaction is conducted in the presence of cationic surfactants (i.e., alkyltrimethylammonium salts), hydrous cerium oxide can incorporate the organic molecule by ex- change with surface OH groups. This approach follows the observation that hydrous oxides can exchange either cations or anions, depending on the pH of the medium. If the pH is higher than that of the isoelectric point of hy- drous cerium oxide, incorporation of cationic surfactants takes place, according to the equilibrium depicted below:
SCHEME 1
The pH of the isoelectric point for hydrous cerium ox- ide is in the range 6.758, depending on the environment (concentration, presence of different ions) (26), and under highly basic conditions (pH > 9), the equilibrium shifts to the right with a net negative charge on the surface. The inor- ganic/organic mixture that is formed by reaction of hydrous cerium oxide with the alkylammonium salt under these pH conditions can be isolated from the reaction medium by filtration and washing. Even after thorough washing, the presence of surfactant is clearly observed by FT-IR, TG,and elemental analysis. Figure 1a shows the IR spectra in
FIG. 1.
(a) FT-IR spectra of dried HSA CeO2 prepared at different reaction times at 363 K; (b) intensity of the C-H absorption bands of incorporated cetyltrymethylammonium salt in dried ceria samples and surface area of the resulting material calcined at 723 K. the region 20004000 cm1 of CeO2 prepared by varying the time of reaction between the hydrous oxide and the surfac- tant at a pH of 11.4. The IR absorption bands in the region of 28002900 cm1 are typical of the C-H stretching mode of hydrocarbons. These bands are easily assigned to the presence of the surfactant hydrocarbon chain. Band inten- sity is dependent on reaction time; the longer the time the more intense the band. The surface area of the resulting cerium oxide also increases (Fig. 1b). It appears that the maximum extent of reaction occurs within ca 90 h. Longer reaction times do not produce any appreciable modifica- tion of C-H vibration intensity and, correspondingly, the textural properties of the final material are not changed. A complete IR spectrum of the materials collected after dry- ing is reported in Fig. 2, which also shows the effect of pH on surfactant incorporation. Residual water and a hydroxy group are detected with a large band around 3500 cm1, cor- responding to O-H stretching frequency, and broad bands at 1600 cm1, due to the bending vibrations of associated water. Additional bands at around 14501500 cm1 and 720 cm1 are assigned to the bending vibrations of the C-H bond of methylene groups (scissoring and rocking vibra- tions). As expected, infrared absorption bands due to the presence of hydrocarbon became more intense as pH in- creased, indicating substantial incorporation of the surfac- tant into the sample. Another series of strong bands is lo- cated around 10001110 cm1. The intensity of these bands is dependent on the surface area being stronger on freshly prepared ceria and weaker after calcination. They are most probably associated to the formation of carbonate-like species on the ceria surface, which decompose after treat- ment at high temperatures (1).
The elimination of weakly adsorbed water and surfactant takes place at temperatures in the 400700 K range. This is 302
TERRIBILE ET AL.
FIG. 2.
FT-IR spectra of dried HSA CeO2 prepared by varying the pH of reaction: (a) pH 9, (b) pH 11.4, (c) pH 13; (d) FT-IR spectra of HSA CeO2 calcined at 923 K. confirmed by combined TG/DTA, FT-IR, and elemental analysis. The FT-IR spectrum of the material after calcina- tion at 923 K is shown in Fig. 2d. The vibrations belonging to C-H groups are completely lost and only residual OH groups are left on the surface. The loss of water and or- ganics is also detected by TG/DTA; a representative profile is reported in Fig. 3. A weight loss ranging from 8 to 16% is calculated from TG measurements in the range 400700 K for all samples examined. In the same temperature range, a series of exothermic peaks is observed in the DTA profile. It is suggested that elimination of organics through oxidation generates an exothermic reaction whose peak covers the peak originating from the endothermic desorption of wa- ter. The other exothermic peak centered at around 1000 K,not associated with weight loss, is due to the crystallization of ceria.
FIG. 3.
A representative simultaneous TG-DTA curves for dried HSA CeO2 in static air.
The composition of the as synthesized material af- ter filtration and drying was checked by C,N,H elemental analysis. The C/N atomic ratios of the material is consis- tent with the surfactant remaining intact during the syn- thesis. The dried material can be formulated as CeOx(O- NC19H42)n • yH2O, if cetyltrimethylammonium salt is used.
Residual chlorides or bromides, originating from the sur- factant, are not detected in the dried samples, as checked by the reaction of the dissolved material with a solution of AgNO3.Carbonisnotdetectedinthesamplesatcalcination temperatures higher than 623 K, while a residual carbon (0.19 wt%) remains on the sample at this temperature. In Table 1 the values of n and y are calculated from elemental analysiscombinedwithTGA.Itisshownthat,inconformity with the equilibrium described above, increasing the pH of the reaction results in a higher loading of the surfactant,incorporated by exchange in the presence of a high number of hydroxy M-Ogroups. This results in a corresponding increase of the surface area, which reaches values exceed- ing 230 m2/g after calcination at 723 K. The maximum is reached at n = 0.12, corresponding to incorporation of one molecule of surfactant every eight/nine cerium atoms. Bear- ing in mind that for a surface area of 200 m2/g approximately one out of three cerium atoms is exposed (27), this means that we have ca. one mole of surfactant every three surface cerium atoms. The value is slightly lower than that reported in the case of synthesis of ZrO2 using surfactants (18). In that case, the overall exchange capacity of hydrous zirco- nium oxide was one mole of surfactant every three or four zirconium atoms, which is a value close to the literature value for the cation exchange capacity of ZrO2 (26).
Careful observation of the colors of the solution/slurry during synthesis is another interesting probe to check for the formation of intermediates. During the process, we ob- served changes in the color as the pH was raised and surfac- tants were added. The initial Ce(NO3)3 or CeCl3 solution is clear and it remains colorless after the addition of sur- factant. It is only when the pH is raised by the addition of ammonia that the solution turns opaque with a deep violet color. In a few hours, before sealing the mixture, the slurry turns brown and then light yellow, remaining light yellow for the entire reaction time (90 h), as well as during drying and calcination. By performing the reaction under identi- cal conditions of concentration, pH, and temperature, but without the addition of the surfactant, the colors evolve in a different way. The slurry during reaction remains vi- olet/brown even after filtration and washing, turning light yellow only after drying. These observations (see discussion section)indicatethatthesurfactantpromotestheformation of yellow hydrous oxide before calcination.
Structural and Morphological Studies Structural and textural-morphological investigations were carried out by powder X-ray diffraction (conventional
PREPARATION OF MESOPOROUS CERIA
303 and low-angle), coupled with scanning and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy. This was done in order to evaluate: (i) whether the incorporation of cationic sur- factants gives rise to a long-range 3D ordered structure,as reported for various oxides containing transition metal,at least before calcination and (ii) whether this leads to enhancement of the textural properties of ceria. There is a broad consensus that the preparation of mesoporous materials results from a self-assembly process involving electrostatic interaction between positively charged qua- ternary ammonium salts and inorganic anions acting as framework precursors. Using this and similar approaches involving, for example, organometallic precursors it was possible to prepare transition metal oxides with a regular three-dimensional structure (23). However, most of these attempts were not successful in generating an oxide which could maintain a stable mesoporous structure upon re- moval of the organic moiety. In the case of zirconium, the partial degree of ordering which was observed in the dried material as a consequence of the introduction of the sur- factants (18) was lost following thermal treatments. Nev- ertheless, the procedure enabled materials with very high surface area to develop even after calcination.
The low-angle X-ray diffraction pattern of the as- synthesized ceria did not show intense reflections at low 22 values. Only one weak peak was observed (Fig. 4), cor- responding to a value of d-spacings of 20.5
A. This value
is not dependent on the chain length of the incorporated alkyltrimethylammonium cation, indicating that there is no long-range order in the structure, or at least that the order is limited to a few regions.
The lack of a long-range ordered structure is also con- firmed by microscopy studies. Figure 5 shows a represen- tative HRTEM image of fresh as synthesized ceria pre- pared using surfactants. As can be seen, there are already well-defined very small crystallites for most particles which
FIG. 4.
A representative low-angle powder X-ray diffraction profile for dried HSA CeO2.
FIG. 5.
High-resolution TEM image of fresh HSA CeO2 calcined at
723 K.
can be indexed as those of cerium (IV) oxide with the cu- bic fluorite structure by the selected area electron diffrac- tion pattern. This indicates that the precipitate from the re- action of cerium chloride/nitrate with ammonia, following the incorporation of surfactant, already displays the pat- tern of a Ce(IV) compound, which is in agreement with the light yellow color of cerium hydrous oxide observed during reaction. The microstructure, crystal size distribu- tion, and morphology of the material is very homogeneous and similar to those exhibited by samples prepared with- out the incorporation of surfactants. In all cases, the atomic assembly as revealed by HRTEM is ordered only at a mi- crodomain level, and in some regions is highly disordered,and pores are irregularly spaced and broadly distributed in size. The similarities between crystallite dimensions ob- tained by HRTEM (2050 A) on the fresh material, and those calculated assuming spherical particles of approxi- mately 180230 m2/g (values measured for ceria after ther- mal treatment at 623723 K), ranging from 36 to 46 A, indi- cate that no aggregation occurs upon calcination of samples at low temperatures.
The SEM micrographs of mesoporous ceria prepared with and without surfactants are illustrated in Figs. 6a and 6b, respectively. Both samples show the typical feature of an agglomerated powder. However, the sample synthesized through the incorporation of surfactants exhibits a consid- erably large degree of porosity, whereas the microstruc- ture of the sample prepared without surfactants indicates a higher degree of agglomeration.
BET surface areas obtained after thermal treatment under air at increasing temperatures are reported in Fig. 7.
Every experimental point is obtained by leaving the sample for 2 h at the calcination temperature indicated (heating rate 10 K/min) under air flow in a tubular furnace. Com- parison with similar data obtained using CVZ CeO2 or taken from the literature show that the textural features of HSA CeO2 are superior to those of conventional CeO2,304
TERRIBILE ET AL.
FIG. 6.
Scanning electron micrographs of a fresh CeO2 sample cal- cined at 723 K prepared with (upper) and without (lower) surfactants. particularly in the temperature range 9001200 K, which is of practical importance for ceria-containing TWC appli- cations. With conventional ceria, a drop in surface area is generally observed around 900 K, which brings the specific area to a few square meters per gram. With HSA CeO2 the surface area at 1073 K is stable at a value of ca 100 (see Table 2) for at least 40 h and drops to ca 40 m2/g at 1173 K.
TEM measurements indicate that the loss in surface area at high temperatures is due to an increase in the size of crystallite domains from a value of 25 nm, observed after calcination at 723 K to 30100 nm, observed after calcina- tion at 1273 K (Fig. 8). This is also consistent with X-ray powder diffraction data of HSA CeO2 calcined at increas- ing temperatures, reported in Fig. 9. The profiles show the typical features of a fluorite-structured material (fcc with a = 0.541 nm). The sintering of HSA CeO2 crystallites is particularly evident in the temperature range 10731273 K with a narrowing of the diffraction peaks, indicating an in- crease of particle dimensions. This is also in agreement with
FIG. 7.
Surface areas obtained by calcination of HSA CeO2 at vari- ous temperatures for 2 h. The maximum (d) and minimum (s) value refer to results obtained following several different preparation (ca 60) at the following conditions: pH 11.4, Temp. 363 K, time 24 days; Ce/surf. ratio 1/0.8, chain length of surf. 1418 carbon atoms. Surface area of conven- tionally prepared CeO2 (j) and data taken from the literature, Ref. (14) (m). the loss of surface area observed following calcination at temperatures higher than 1173 K.
The other data reported in Table 2 indicate that the sur- faceareadependsonthechainlengthofthesurfactantused,being higher with surfactants having 14 to 16 carbon atoms (runs 2, 3, and 5), while it is not strongly dependent on the ratio Ce/surf we have used (compare runs 3, 10, and 11).
By keeping in mind that approximately one mole of surfac- tant is incorporated for every eight/nine cerium atoms, the
TABLE 2
Textural Properties of CeO2 Samples Obtained by Varying Reaction Parametersa Calcination Calcination Chain length Surface Sample temp. T time (number area #
(K)
(h) pH Ce/surf.
C atoms) (m2/g) 1 723 2
11.4
1/0.8 - 94 2 723 2
11.4
1/0.8 14 200 3 723 2
11.4
1/0.8 16 201 4 623 2
11.4
1/0.8 16 232 5 723 2
11.4
1/0.8 18 169 6 723 2 9 1/0.8 16 93 7 1173 2 9 1/0.8 16 36 8 723 2 13 1/0.8 16 231 9 1173 2 13 1/0.8 16 <1 10 723 2
11.4
1/1 16 191 11 723 2
11.4
1/1.5 16 192 12 1073 2
11.4
1/0.8 16 126 13 1073 5
11.4
1/0.8 16 112 14 1073 20
11.4
1/0.8 16 100 15 1073 40
11.4
1/0.8 16 96 a Reaction time 90 h, T = 363 K. Samples were dried at 343 K for 15 h.
PREPARATION OF MESOPOROUS CERIA
305
FIG. 8.
TEM image of HSA CeO2 calcined at 1273 K for 2 h. amount used is well above that required, and no variation is expected in this concentration range. Overall, the most ef- fective parameter is the pH of the reaction medium, which effectively shifts the equilibrium by increasing the number of surface OH groups. However, while by increasing the pH, an increase of the surface area of the fresh material is always observed; a better thermal resistance is evidenced for ceria prepared in the range of pH 911.
The nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherm measured for a representative sample of HSA CeO2 (surface area 232 m2/g) is reported in Fig. 10 and can be classified as a type IV isotherm, typical of a mesoporous material (similar
FIG. 9.
X-ray diffraction patterns for HSA CeO2 calcined at (a) 923 K,(b) 1073 K, and (c) 1273 K.
FIG. 10.
A representative N2 adsorption/desorption isotherm for mesoporous ceria (BET surface area 232 m2/g). shapes are obtained in the isotherms of all samples inves- tigated). The shape of the curve, in agreement with results from transmission electron microscopy studies, indicates the absence of a narrow pore size distribution, as suggested by the lack of the typical step in the adsorption isotherm which is observed with ordered mesoporous materials. Ac- cording to IUPAC classification, the hysteresis loop is type H2 indicating a complex mesoporous structure. The pore size distribution calculated from the desorption branch is reported in Fig. 11 for HSA CeO2 calcined at various
FIG. 11.
Pore size distribution of HSA CeO2 calcined at increasing temperatures: (j), 673 K; (d), 923 K; (m), 1073 K, showing the pore opening range centered at ca 35 A pore radius. 306
TERRIBILE ET AL.
FIG. 12.
Representative t-plot of HSA CeO2. temperatures. It may be observed that the material has a pore distribution covering the range 1080 A with a max- imum at around 35 A, which is not dependent on the cal- cination temperature from 723 to 1073 K. By increasing the calcination temperature only a variation in the amount of total pore volume is observed but there is no change in the distribution of pore dimensions, indicating a mod- erate sintering which takes place without modification of the pore radius. In accordance with the observed lack of long range order, we did not observe any variation of the pore size distribution curve on changing the chain length of the surfactant used. The t-plot obtained from the ad- sorption branch of the isotherm is reported in Fig. 12. The initial slope leads to a value of 224 m2/g (obtained from the relation t( A) = {13.99/[log(p0/p) + 0.034]}1/2 (28)) in excellent agreement with the value of 232 m2/g calculated using the BET method. This indicates an absence of micro- pores below ca 9
A. The low value of the BET constant
c in all samples (50 < c < 120) is further indication of an absence of microporosity.
DISCUSSION
The results presented here show no evidence that cerium oxide in the presence of surfactants forms an ordered tem- plated oxide, although very high surface area develops after calcination. In the formation of an ordered 3D structure,it is well accepted that the organization of surfactants into various configurations is directed by the electrostatic inter- actions with charged inorganic species whose charge, coor- dination, and geometry are in turn governed by pH, tem- perature, concentration, counterions, and solvent. The ion pairs formed between inorganic and organic species orga- nize into liquid crystal arrays and finally oxide condensation place. Thus any variation in the nature and charge of ions during the process could lead to a modification of the final material. From the results presented here it can be inferred that the surfactant interacts with hydrous Ce(IV) oxide which has already formed during the precipitation/reaction stage. This implies that oxidation of Ce3+ takes place during the reaction of Ce(NO3)3 with ammonium hydroxide. The driving force for the oxidation of Ce3+ is related to the ba- sicity of the reaction medium. According to the definition of basicity, Ce3+ can be regarded as a Lewis base while Ce4+ is a Lewis acid. Basic solutions, therefore, favor the formation of Ce4+. This is quantified by the following equilibrium: Ce3+ + H2O Ce(OH)3+ + H+ + e with an E= 1.715 V (29). An increase in emf occurs on increasing pH from the initial value of 2.5 to 11. This helps oxidation of Ce3+ to Ce4+. However, although the high pH shiftstheequilibrium,thereactionisstillnotthermodynam- ically favored (at pH of 13 an overall thermodynamic con- stant for the oxidation of Ce3+ to Ce4+ with dissolved O2 is K 1030). To drive the equilibrium to the right for com- plete oxidation of Ce3+ to Ce4+, the Ce4+ must be with- drawn from the solution, for example, in the form of precipi- tate. Because of their lower basicity and higher charge, Ce4+ ions are easily hydrated to form complexes with OHand H2O (Ce(H2O)x(OH)(4y)+ y ). Further polymerization and precipitation of these hydroxides to give hydrous oxide and then to the oxide is strongly favored under basic conditions (K 1050) and in the presence of the surfactant. Therefore the continuous withdrawal of Ce4+ from solution shifts the equilibriumCe3+/4+infavoroftheoxidizedstate.Theoccur- rence of this process is confirmed by the color changes (col- orless violet brown yellow) during reaction, which is consistent with a progressive variation of the redox state ofcerium.Thevioletcolorischaracteristicofpoorlydefined mixedvalencehydratesintermediateswhichfinallygiveyel- low Ce(IV) oxide (30). If surfactant is not added, complete oxidationtoCe(IV)occursonlyatthedryingstagewhenthe precipitate turns yellow. This observation is also in agree- ment with previous studies on the behavior of Ce(NO3)3 under homogeneous precipitating conditions with NH4OH,where the formation of yellow CeO2 was detected only af- ter drying (6), whereas in the presence of additional organic oxidants, this oxidation occurred in solution.
The approach we followed can be summarized by the reaction paths outlined in Scheme 2.
The soluble isolated Ce3+ under basic conditions oxidizes to a hydrated Ce4+ formulated as Ce(H2O)x(OH)(4y)+ y ,which then incorporates the surfactant in accordance with reaction II. This step can also be viewed as the formation of polymeric hydrous oxide, which then reacts with the alky- lammonium salt (steps IIa and IIb) at a pH well above that of the isoelectric point of Ce oxide. Under these conditions,
PREPARATION OF MESOPOROUS CERIA
307
SCHEME 2
an exchange between the deprotonated hydroxy group of the oxide and the alkyl ammonium cation takes place with formation of an inorganic/organic composite which upon drying and calcination (steps 3 and 4) originates pure meso- porous cerium oxide with high surface area. Reaction II de- termines the amount of organic template which exchanges with the OH groups of the oxide. This depends on pH, reac- tion time, or the ratio of Ce/surfactant used. We observed that the surfactant is able to promote oxidation of Ce3+ to Ce4+ and formation of hydrous oxide in solution, be- fore drying. This enhancement can be related to two main causes: (i) the sequestration effected by the surfactant of the species Ce(H2O)x(OH)(4y)+ y (reaction II) and (ii) the number of cerium ions present on the surface of the precip- itated particles. In the first case, the surfactant shifts both equilibrium I and II to the right, increasing the amount of exchanged Ce(IV) oxide, while the presence of more sur- face cerium atoms favorably alters surface energy, and oxi- dation of Ce3+ to Ce4+ is more completely directed to Ce4+ (12). The presence of more surface cerium atoms is a conse- quence of the smaller particles formed with the surfactants with a higher number of exposed cerium atoms.
The degree of ordering of our mesoporous ceria, as evidenced in the paper, is poor and limited to some regions only. We believe the failure to provide a mesoscopic organi- zation originates from the redox chemistry of cerium, both in solution and in the solid state, and from the different oxo chemistry of this element in comparison, for example,with elements like Si and Al. We carefully investigated this issue by varying surfactants and reaction conditions (pH,time, temperature, concentration, Ce/Cn ratio) and our conclusion is that a different approach should probably be followed to increase the degree of structural, long range organization. Reduction of Ce4+ in high surface area ceria is very easy, so any effort directed at increasing porosity and surface area with a stable and ordered 3D structure will be nullified by a structural collapse due to Ce4+ reduction,operated, for example, by the surfactant during drying and calcination.
The questions which remain to be addressed are: (i) why the incorporation of surfactants always results in an en- hancement of the surface area of ceria and (ii) why ceria prepared with this methodology has a better thermal sta- bility. The first question could be related to the reduction of the surface tension inside the pores operated by the surfac- tant during drying and calcination. As the hydrous cerium oxide shrinks, the tension in the pores increases, causing pores to collapse. Surfactant can act by reducing the inter- facial energy and thereby decreasing capillary stress, which ultimately has a beneficial effect on pore structure stability.
Whether the surfactant can be added at the last stage, be- fore drying, or whether it must be added at the beginning,remains an open question. We have observed that adding the surfactant before drying contributes to the enhance- ment of surface areas but does not produce the large en- hancement observed if the surfactant is incorporated at the start of the process. Most important, resistance to sintering at temperatures between 900 and 1200 K is strongly en- hanced by initial incorporation of the surfactant, indicating that the structural arrangement and the morphology of the inorganicorganic material in the hydrogel could also affect performance of the material by affecting the composition of CeO2/CeOx phases at increasing temperatures. For exam- ple, the higher oxygen storage/transport ability of ceria pre- pared using surfactants (25) indicates a different O2migra- tion/diffusion rate and an enhanced stability of nonstoichio- metric CeO2x phases. These features could also contribute to the enhanced textural stability of this ceria in comparison to ceria prepared by conventional precipitation.
CONCLUSIONS
This is to our knowledge the first effort to produce a mesoscopic organization with CeO2, and the methodology reported here, although failing in providing a long-range ordered three-dimensional structure, allows the prepara- tion of high-surface area ceria, with improved resistance to sintering. This, in turn, allows an enlargement of the tem- perature window of possible catalytic application of ceria,especially in the treatment of exhaust gases.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation in nickel oxide-based catalysts influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions (such as ethylbenzene to styrene and ethane to ethylene), and what are the key challenges in theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these catalytic systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 