A combined in situ time-resolved UV–Vis, Raman and high-energy resolution
X-ray absorption spectroscopy study on the deactivation behavior of Pt and PtASn
propane dehydrogenation catalysts under industrial reaction conditions
Ana Iglesias-Juez a, Andrew M. Beale a, Karin Maaijen a, Tsu Chien Weng b, Pieter Glatzel b,
Bert M. Weckhuysen a,⇑
a Inorganic Chemistry and Catalysis, Debye Institute for Nanomaterials Science, Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, 3584 CA Utrecht, The Netherlands
b European Synchrotron Radiation Facilities, ID26, BP 220, F-38043 Grenoble Cedex, France
a r t i c l e
i n f o
Article history:
Received 10 May 2010
Revised 10 September 2010
Accepted 18 September 2010
Keywords:
Propane dehydrogenation
PtASn alloy formation
Coke formation
HERFD XANES and Raman
a b s t r a c t
The catalytic performances of Pt/Al2O3 and Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalysts for the dehydrogenation of propane
through consecutive reaction–regeneration cycles have been studied under realistic reaction conditions.
A 10-fold successive dehydrogenation–regeneration cycling study, similar to that employed in an indus-
trial propane dehydrogenation reactor, was performed in order to examine the catalyst activity and sta-
bility as well as the propene selectivity. Combined in situ UV–Vis/Raman spectroscopy measurements
were taken in order to follow the coke formation processes during propane dehydrogenation. This
approach allowed correlating propane conversion and propene formation with the on-line determined
Raman D over G band intensity ratio and amount of coke formed. These in situ measurements on coke
formation and related catalyst deactivation were supplemented by in situ high-energy resolution ﬂuores-
cence detected (HERFD) XANES measurements in order to characterize the structural and electronic prop-
erties of the supported Pt and PtASn nanoparticles during the successive dehydrogenation–regeneration
cycles. This combination of powerful spectroscopic techniques revealed unique information regarding the
activity behavior and deactivation mechanism of Pt- and PtASn-based propane dehydrogenation cata-
lysts, enabling us to identify important structure-electronic-performance relationships as well as funda-
mental insight into the dynamics of PtASn alloy formation processes in Pt nanoparticles at elevated
temperatures.
 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
The catalytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes, such as propane,
is of great commercial interest due to the growing demand of pro-
pene as an important base chemical intermediate [1–4]. Pt-based
catalysts have been widely used for alkane dehydrogenation reac-
tions due to their excellent activity [5]. However, this catalyst sys-
tem suffers from fast deactivation due to coke formation. There are
several strategies to improve the catalytic behavior of Pt, including
its promotion with a second metal [6,7]. Sn is often added to alter
the product distribution for hydrocarbon conversion through the
inhibition of hydrogenolysis, isomerisation, cracking and coke for-
mation, thereby enhancing the catalyst selectivity and stability
[7,8]. However, the mechanism by which Sn as promoter modiﬁes
the catalytic behavior of Pt remains a matter of debate due to the
complicated nature of the PtASn alloy system. On the other hand,
even though Sn is one of the most efﬁcient promoters, deactivation
due to coke formation is not avoidable and results in catalyst mate-
rials still exhibiting short lifetimes. As such, coked catalysts need to
undergo a regeneration process (i.e., coke burning) in order to re-
store the activity. The regeneration treatment typically consists
of exposing the coked catalyst to air or oxygen at high tempera-
tures to burn the deposits, followed by a reduction step to bring
back the active form of the catalyst (i.e., metallic Pt). Thus, it is
important to consider that the exposure of the catalyst material
to such oxidation and reduction cycles modiﬁes the catalysts’ prop-
erties (both structural and electronic), which affects the behavior
of the catalysts for subsequent dehydrogenation cycle(s). However,
to the best of our knowledge, the majority of literature work
mainly concentrates on the characterization of catalyst systems
before and after only one dehydrogenation cycle; the study of Pa-
dro et al. in which multiple regeneration steps were employed is
the only notable exception [9]. Therefore, unfortunately to date,
it has not been possible to extract conclusive information regard-
ing the basic principles of catalyst operation/deactivation of this
important catalyst system under real reaction conditions.
0021-9517/$ - see front matter  2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.jcat.2010.09.018
⇑Corresponding author. Fax: +31 30 251 1027.
E-mail address: b.m.weckhuysen@uu.nl (B.M. Weckhuysen).
Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Journal of Catalysis
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jcat
In this work, the catalytic performance of Al2O3-supported Pt
and PtASn catalysts has been investigated and compared for the
selective dehydrogenation of propane to propene under industri-
ally relevant conditions. The work makes use of two separate
in situ reactor setups: one that utilizes a powder-containing,
plug-ﬂow reactor setup that combines on-line activity measure-
ments with the simultaneous recording of in situ UV–Vis and
Raman spectroscopy data and a second setup consisting of a ﬂow-
through cell using a pressed pellet sample that has been developed
so that it is possible to perform catalytic reactions with on-line
product monitoring at the outlet (mass spectrometer) while per-
forming in situ high-energy resolution ﬂuorescence detected (HER-
FD) X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements [10,11].
The results obtained from these innovative real-time characteriza-
tion studies show a difference in behavior for the catalyst materials
(in the presence/absence of Sn as promoter) with regard to both
propane dehydrogenation/activation and coke formation (in both
the amount and type of coke formed). Differences in the oxidation
state and the electronic properties and the local structures of Pt
and Sn in PtASn catalysts during successive activation–reaction–
regeneration cycles that affect the propane activation mechanism
were also followed and have been correlated with the extent of al-
loy formation. In addition, we observed that during the regenera-
tion process in oxygen to burn-off the formed coke on the
catalyst, sintering or segregation of the metals also takes place,
causing irreversible deactivation of the catalyst. Based on these
new insights, a comprehensive working model for the short- and
long-term deactivation of PtASn dehydrogenation catalysts is
proposed.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Catalyst preparation and physicochemical characterization
A series of Al2O3-supported Pt and PtASn (Pt: 0.5 wt.% and Sn:
1.5 wt.%) catalysts have been prepared. The proportion of both
metals was chosen similar to that employed for PtASn-based
industrial catalysts used in the dehydrogenation of propane in or-
der to establish a close correspondence between the model and
real systems. The catalyst materials have been synthesized making
use of the incipient wet co-impregnation method of a commercial
alumina carrier (Norton, 89 m2/g). Solutions containing the metal
precursors were prepared containing 1.27 g H2PtCl6 (39.96% Pt;
Degussa) and 2.91 g SnCl22H2O (Merck, p.a.) diluted in 600 ml eth-
anol 99.9%. Hundred grams of the carrier material was impreg-
nated with the solution. The ethanol was then evaporated by
using a rotavap (50 C, 20 mbar). The obtained catalyst materials
were calcined for 3 h at 560 C. After propane dehydrogenation,
the coke contents of a selection of catalyst samples have been
determined using thermogravimetrical analysis in artiﬁcial air
using a Perkin-Elmer Pyris 1 TGA instrument.
2.2. In situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy
Experiments at the Sn K edge and Pt L3 edge during H2 reduc-
tion were conducted using an in situ cell, which allows the inves-
tigation
of
the
catalyst
materials
using
X-ray
absorption
spectroscopy (XAS) for sample temperatures from 25 to 500 C.
This was integrated with a gas ﬂow system in order to switch be-
tween different gas atmospheres. EXAFS measurements were ta-
ken
at
the
DUBBLE
(BM26A)
beamline
of
the
European
Synchrotron Research Facility (ESRF, Grenoble, France). The beam-
line was equipped with a double Si(1 1 1) crystal monochromator.
Measurements were taken in ﬂuorescence mode using a 9-element
germanium detector. The samples were prepared by hand pressing
0.1 g of powder into a self-supporting wafer. This wafer was then
placed in a treatment cell and reduced in a ﬂow of 10% H2 in He
for 30 min at 450 C, the temperature ramp-up rate being 5 C/min.
Afterward, the cell was cooled down and Pt L3 edge EXAFS scans
were acquired at liquid N2 temperature. Each measurement was
repeated two times. The EXAFS data analysis was carried out
with the EXCURV program. The EXAFS data were extracted from
the averaged absorption spectra through pre-edge subtraction
using a modiﬁed Victoreen curve and then through background
subtraction employing cubic spline routines with a continuously
adjustable smoothing factor. Finally, the average spectrum was
normalized by dividing the data by the absorption intensity at
50 eV after the edge. The obtained chi (v) function was analyzed
by multiple shells data ﬁtting in k-space with a k3-weighting. From
the EXAFS analysis, the obtained ﬁrst-shell PtAPt coordination
numbers were used to evaluate the average Pt particle size.
2.3. Model calculations for ideal Pt and PtASn nanoparticle geometries
In order to extract particle morphology/bimetal distribution
information from the XAFS results, we performed a series of
numerical simulations to determine coordination numbers for
the ﬁrst two coordination (Pt and Sn) shells, for different theoret-
ical bimetal particle morphologies. Details on these calculations
can be found elsewhere [12]. Bimetal structures were created using
the nanocluster building function of the Materials Studio software
package based on a Pt unit cell and substituting some Pt atoms for
Sn. Various structures were simulated with differing bimetal
arrangements including spherical, hemispherical and cubic struc-
tures with decorated, core–shell, hemi-sphere and random alloy
distributions. The ﬁnal structures proposed were based on ﬁts
(coordination number variability of ±0.1) to the obtained coordina-
tion numbers from the experimental EXAFS analysis.
2.4. CO temperature-programmed desorption infrared spectroscopy
Infrared (IR) measurements were taken on self-supporting cat-
alyst wafers (/ = 7 mm) that were pressed from 0.01 g to 0.02 g of
sample material. A pressure of no more than 2 bar was applied dur-
ing a period of 10 s to prevent the destruction of the pore structure
of the support. The wafer was placed in an IR transmission cell
equipped with CaF2 windows. The cell was connected to a gas han-
dling system, which allowed measurements under low pressure
(106 bar) as well as under gas ﬂow. The cell was evacuated to
106 bar at 50 C for 30 min prior to reduction by 60 ml/min ﬂow
of H2 (quality 5.0; Hoekloos). During reduction, the temperature
was raised from 50 C to 450 C at 3 C/min and maintained for
30 min at 450 C. The system was then switched back to vacuum
for 30 min at 450 C, before being cooled down to 50 C at a rate
of 3 C/min. A ﬁrst spectrum was taken under vacuum and served
as background reference for the catalyst wafer. Next, 10% CO (qual-
ity 4.7; Linde AG) in He (quality 4.6; Linde AG) was introduced in
the cell until a stable pressure of ca. 0.06 bar was reached. After
30 min of static CO exposure, the cell was evacuated to a pressure
of
2  106
bar
for
30 min
at
50 C
before
Temperature-
programmed desorption (TPD) was started by increasing the
temperature up to 450 C at a rate of 3 C/min. IR spectra were
recorded every 2 min on a Perkin-Elmer 2000 FT-IR instrument
with an optical resolution of 4 cm1 and an accumulation of 25
scans with wavenumbers ranging from 4000 cm1 to 1300 cm1.
The data acquisition was performed automatically using the
Perkin-Elmer Time-Base software. The reproducibility of all IR-TPD
measurements was veriﬁed by repeating the experiments in two
different ways: (1) On two different wafers from the same sample
and (2) on the same wafer by applying the same procedure two
times in a row without opening the IR cell. Band positions and
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
269
corresponding area data were estimated from the baseline-corrected
spectra using the Perkin-Elmer Time-Base software package.
2.5. Catalytic activity and coke formation measurements
The catalytic activity testing was carried out in an in situ com-
bined UV–Vis/Raman setup with on-line gas chromatography (GC)
analysis. Details of this experimental setup can be found elsewhere
[11]. A cylindrical quartz reactor with a square section which was
made out of optical grade quartz windows was placed in an oven;
the optical grade windows allow for the collection of high-quality
Raman and UV–Vis data. A Kaiser Optical Systems Inc. Raman spec-
trometer was placed on one side of the reactor. Spectra were re-
corded in Holograms 4.0 with an exposure time of 7 s and 11
accumulations. On the other side of the reactor, a high-tempera-
ture UV–Vis probe was positioned detecting every 2 min (5 s, 10
accumulations) in situ UV–Vis spectra. Since the reﬂectance prop-
erties of the catalyst material (i.e., catalyst darkening) changed
during the reaction due to the formation of coke on the catalyst,
a correction on the observed Raman intensity was made by UV–
Vis. Details of this procedure can be found elsewhere [13]; 0.5 g
of catalyst was placed in the reactor as packed bed on quartz wool.
A variable gas feed was introduced in the reactor. The quantiﬁca-
tion of the gas products was possible by an on-line Interscience
compact GC equipped with two detectors, namely a FID and TCD
with a Porabond-Q and a Carboxan column, respectively. At the
outlet of the reactor, the gas stream was diluted with He for GC
analysis. Chromatograms were acquired every 5 min. Different
conditions were employed for the activity measurements:
(a) Pre-treatment: The samples were pre-activated in the same
reactor before C3H8 dehydrogenation reaction was carried
out. A H2 ﬂow (9.5 ml min1) was introduced, while the tem-
perature was increased from room temperature up to 590 C
with a temperature ramp of 10 C min1. After the reduction,
the reactor was purged with He for 5 min.
(b) Dehydrogenation reaction: After reduction, a gas stream of
pure propane (9 ml min1) humidiﬁed with 9 v/v% of steam
was introduced in the reactor. The reaction proceeded for
6 h at 590 C, and after this treatment, the system was
purged with He for 5 min.
(c) Regeneration process: The sample was regenerated at the
same temperature in an oxygen environment to burn the
coke from the catalyst material. The regeneration process
consisted of a moderate reoxidation in 7% of O2 for 1 h and
a more severe reoxidation in 20% of O2 at 590 C. After this
time, no CO2 was detected in the GC, which suggests that
the burn-off of the coke was complete. The system was
purged with He for 5 min.
(d) Re-activation of the catalyst: Without modifying the tem-
perature, a reduction step was ﬁrst performed to activate
the catalyst material. This time a gas ﬂow of 20% of H2 in
He was used. After a He purge, the dehydrogenation reaction
was started again and considered as a new cycle. This cycle
was repeated 10 times and after the reactor was cooled
down in He to RT.
2.6. In situ high-energy resolution ﬂuorescence detected X-ray
absorption spectroscopy
Measurements were taken at the ID26 beamline of ESRF (Grenoble,
France). High-energy resolution ﬂuorescence detected (HERFD)
X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) at the L3 (11.5637 keV) edges
was performed on the Pt/Al2O3 and PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts under
the same gas conditions and reaction temperatures as discussed
above for the combined in situ UV–Vis/Raman spectroscopy
measurements. For these HERFD-XAS measurements, we used
the horizontal plane Rowland circle spectrometer tuned to the Pt
La1 (9.442 eV) ﬂuorescence line. The (660) Bragg reﬂection of four
spherically bent Ge wafers with R = 1 m and a diameter of 89 mm
was required. Approximately, 40 mg of catalyst was pressed to a
self-supporting wafer, which ﬁts in the sample holder.
An in situ cell provided by the Sample Environment Support
Service (SESS) of the ESRF was used. It is specially designed for
the use of pelleted samples and allows for the measurement of
ﬂuorescence data [10]. The maximum working temperature can
go up to 1000 C. The gas cell included cooling loops, thermal cou-
ples and heaters all built-in. It was also equipped with a gas ﬂow
control (from the ID26 ESRF beamline) to use different gas atmo-
sphere. The experimental runs consist of an in situ pre-reduction
at 600 C (20% H2/He) followed by continuous propane dehydroge-
nation (10% C3H8/He) until the temperature reaches 600 C. Then,
subsequent step changes in the gas mixture under isothermal con-
ditions were applied; i.e., cycles of propane dehydrogenation (10%
C3H8/He), regeneration in O2 atmosphere and re-reduction in H2,
similar to the catalytic study described above. An on-line mass
spectrometer provided a measure of the global catalytic process
at hand through monitoring the composition of the gaseous feed-
stock, ensuring reproduction, on the ESRF beamline of a reaction
environment and of catalytic performances similar to those pres-
ent in the in situ UV–Vis/Raman setup described above.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Catalytic activity studies of supported Pt and PtASn nanoparticles
Fig. 1 shows an overview of the catalytic performances of the Pt
and PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst materials during 10 successive dehydro-
genation–regeneration cycles. Although the fresh Pt/Al2O3 catalyst
exhibits the highest initial reaction activity, after 6 h of reaction,
the catalyst deactivates very fast with propane conversions
decreasing from 40% to 5%. After this ﬁrst reaction and subsequent
isothermal regeneration process, the catalytic activity is observed
to be much lower during the second and third reaction cycles,
resulting in almost no net conversion after three dehydrogena-
tion–regeneration cycles.
In contrast, the presence of Sn as a promoter drastically im-
proves the catalytic behavior. The PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst material
possesses both a higher propane conversion and propene selectiv-
ity, which is maintained throughout the duration of the ﬁrst dehy-
drogenation step. As with the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst, a decrease in the
catalytic activity is also observed after the ﬁrst regeneration treat-
ment. However, this happens more gradually than for the Pt/Al2O3
catalyst. Further deactivation occurs during subsequent dehydro-
genation–regeneration cycles although a steady state is reached
after 5–6 cycles. Interestingly, despite this gradual catalyst deacti-
vation, the net conversion during the experiment is always higher
for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst than for the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst. This is
illustrated in Fig. 1A.
The corresponding propene selectivities of the Pt/Al2O3 and
PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts are shown in Fig. 1B. It is clear that for the
fresh Pt/Al2O3 catalyst, the propene selectivity decreases with reac-
tion time. However, in contrast, the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst not only
shows higher overall propene selectivity, but also the selectivity
increases gradually throughout the experiment. After the ﬁrst
regeneration process, the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst still presents high
selectivity, which remains constant during the cycle. Nevertheless,
for the following dehydrogenation cycles, a decrease in selectivity
was observed during the reaction time which became more acute
after 5–6 cycles. The hydrocarbon distribution for the Pt/Al2O3
and PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts during the multiple reaction cycles is
270
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
given in Fig. S1, indicating that besides propene also ethane, ethene
and some methane are formed.
3.2. Analysis of coke deposit formation and its relation to catalyst
performance
The amount of coke deposited on the catalyst materials after
propane dehydrogenation for 6 h was measured by using thermo-
gravimetrical analysis. The amount of coke on the Pt/Al2O3 and
PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts was 8.2 and 7.3% w/w, respectively. The for-
mation of coke on a PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst was only a bit lower than
on a Pt/Al2O3 catalyst; however, the inﬂuence on the propane
dehydrogenation activity and propene selectivity appears to be
much more signiﬁcant and merited a more detailed spectroscopic
investigation of the coke formed.
As a result, we have on-line monitored the formation of
coke during propane dehydrogenation using a combined in situ
UV–Vis/Raman setup. The in situ UV–Vis spectra were used to perform
a correction of the decrease in the Raman signal caused by the
darkening of the catalyst as coke deposits gradually formed on
the catalyst surface. Detailed information about this procedure
can be found elsewhere [13], and the coke amount from the TGA
analysis was used to quantify the in situ Raman data. As an exam-
ple, Fig. 2 shows the raw in situ Raman spectra for the Pt/Al2O3 cat-
alyst during the ﬁrst propane dehydrogenation cycle measured at
590 C.
Two distinct Raman bands at around 1584 and 1321 cm1 were
observed. These Raman bands can be ascribed to coke G and D
modes, respectively. Single crystal graphite has a single Raman ac-
tive mode, (the zone-center mode) at 1580 cm1 of E2g symmetry
and is labeled ‘G’ for ‘graphite’. Disordered graphite has a second
mode around 1350 cm1 of A1g symmetry labeled ‘D’ for ‘disorder’.
It corresponds to a breathing vibration of rings at the K zone
boundary [14,15]. An unusual and signiﬁcant fact is that the Raman
spectra of most disordered carbons remain dominated by these
two G and D modes of graphite, even when the carbons do not have
a particular graphitic ordering [16]. The G mode is actually the
stretching vibration of any pair of sp2 sites, whether in C@C chains
or in aromatic rings [16]. This mode is then also seen in ethylene as
well as in graphite but is blue-shifted to higher wavenumbers.
Thus, G in this instance does not only mean ‘graphite’. The D mode
is the breathing mode of those sp2 sites only in rings, not in chains.
Therefore, these bands provide information not only on the
amount of coke present on the catalyst, but also on its nature.
Ferrari and Robertson [16] found that it is possible to classify the
Raman spectra of carbons, using the intensity ratio of the D and
G bands, within a three-stage model of disorder degree as follows:
(1) sp3 amorphous carbons (a-C) to sp2 a-C, (2) a-C sp2 to nano-
crystalline graphite and (3) nano-crystalline graphite to more per-
fect graphite.
The Raman intensity proﬁle of the coke band located at
1584 cm1 after UV–Vis correction is shown in Fig. S2. It was noted
that the amount of coke in the Pt/Al2O3 and PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts
gradually increases during propane dehydrogenation, but after
regeneration treatment the total amount of coke decreases in the
successive cycles. This behavior parallels the propane conversion
proﬁles. For the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst, the presence of Sn not only
Fig. 1. (A) Propane conversion and (B) propene selectivity of (j) Pt and (h) PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts during 10 consecutive dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles at 590 C.
Fig. 2. In situ Raman spectra of the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst acquired along the ﬁrst
dehydrogenation of propane cycle for 6 h at 590 C.
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
271
reduces the amount of coke formed during a propane dehydroge-
nation run but also modiﬁes its rate of formation.
The intensity ratio of the D and G Raman bands at around 1321
and 1584 cm1, respectively, provides information on the type of
coke that is formed on the surface. The results are displayed in
Fig. 3 for cycle 1, 2 and 10, together with the activity data for the
Pt/Al2O3 and PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts. For Pt/Al2O3, an initial D over
G ratio of 0.4 is observed. This ratio increases with time on stream
until reaching a value of around 1 where it remains constant even
after one hour of reaction. These results suggest that at the begin-
ning of the catalytic reaction, a more disordered aliphatic type of
coke forms and after 1 h the amount of coke increases but without
changing its nature. A similar trend is observed in the following
additional propane dehydrogenation cycles. In the case of the
PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst, the initial D over G ratio is around 0.7 and re-
mains almost constant during the cycle, indicating that no changes
take place in the nature of the coke. However, after the ﬁrst regen-
eration process, the coke formed at the beginning of the next dehy-
drogenation cycle seems more disordered and with reaction time,
the D over G ratio ﬁrst increases, but after one hour-on-stream
the D over G ratio decreases. This indicates that the nature of coke
becomes more graphitic; the propene would initially form oligo-
mers (or polymers) and aromatics, but after a while, these surface
species would lose hydrogen and become more graphitic. Fig. 3
also shows that the change in the nature of the coke deposits coin-
cides with a maximum in propane conversion. Apparently, then
the type of coke inﬂuences the activity of the propane dehydroge-
nation reaction. In the 10th dehydrogenation cycle, the same
behavior is observed showing a clear relation between the deacti-
vation of the catalyst material and the formation of more graphitic
coke.
The Pt/Al2O3 catalyst exhibits a higher initial propane conver-
sion than the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst. However, the initial selectivity
to propene is much lower (60%) when compared to the PtASn/
Al2O3 catalyst (90%) (Fig. 1B). The high selectivity toward crack-
ing products, namely methane and ethane, for the Pt/Al2O3 cata-
lyst, as illustrated in Fig. S1, indicates that the supported Pt
nanoparticles in this catalyst are very active for CAC bond activa-
tion [17–19]. From the above observation, it can be suggested that
a reaction mechanism involving common surface intermediates,
which form activated/partly dehydrogenated propane, can either
desorb as C3H6 or further undergo cracking to C1, C2 and even to
surface carbon deposits. The fast decrease in conversion points to
a rapid deactivation of the catalyst probably caused by the blocking
of active Pt sites by coke formation.
During the ﬁrst dehydrogenation cycle, the PtASn/Al2O3 cata-
lyst shows lower initial propane conversion and a higher rate of
coke formation when compared to the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst. In the
presence of Sn, the light products that are produced are ethane
and methane in equimolar amounts, which is typical for a metal-
catalyzed hydrogenolysis reaction (Fig. S1). The selectivity to light
products is much lower and decreases with time, suggesting that
the hydrogenolysis reaction is inhibited by coke formation on the
metal particles [7]. However, despite the amount of coke formed,
PtASn/Al2O3 exhibits a much higher selectivity to propene and
the amount of propene increases together with propane conversion
with time on stream, displaying better catalyst stability than the
Pt/Al2O3 catalyst.
The results indicate that the presence of Sn not only modiﬁes
the electronic properties of the Pt nanoparticles and therefore
the activation of propane but also produces a ‘drain-off’ effect. This
drain-off effect keeps the Pt sites clean by removing the coke pre-
cursors from the vicinity of active sites to the support. This hypoth-
esis was ﬁrst proposed by Lieske et al. and has been discussed in
the context of a particle ensemble effect [20]. It suggests that coke
precursors such as oleﬁnic species adsorb less strongly on the
Fig. 3. Intensity ratio of the D and G Raman bands (h) and propane conversion (j) during cycle (a) 1, (b) 2 and (c) 10 of propane dehydrogenation for the (A) Pt/Al2O3 and (B)
PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst materials.
272
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
PtASn bimetallic catalyst due to an ensemble effect of Sn. There-
fore, coke precursors are mobile and easily migrate to the support
where they ﬁnally deposit as coke. In recent work, Kumar et al. [21]
proposed a ‘modiﬁed drain-off’ effect, which is based on a combi-
nation of the electronic and drain-off effects. After one regeneration
process, although the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst exhibits lower propane
conversion, the same catalytic behavior and coke evolution is
observed. On the other hand, the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst material
possesses both different activity and different coke formation with
respect to the initial dehydrogenation cycle, which suggests a
modiﬁcation of the properties of the active sites.
3.3. Electronic and structural characterization of Pt and PtASn
nanoparticles
3.3.1. XANES-EXAFS analysis
The normalized L3 XANES spectra obtained for the Pt/Al2O3 cat-
alyst after H2 reduction display a characteristic Pt(0) spectrum
with the same edge position as a Pt foil reference. However, while
the spectrum shape of the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst also resembles that
of the Pt foil, the absorption edge is shifted to higher energy
(Fig. S3). This points to a clear electronic interaction between the
Sn and Pt and in particular that Sn withdraws electron density
from Pt. Also a clear red shift is visible for the 5f Continuum Reso-
nance (CR), located at ca. 11,592 eV, with respect to the Pt/Al2O3
sample (Fig. S3). This red shift indicates an increase in the PtAPt
nearest distance most likely associated with the dissolution of Sn
atoms in the Pt fcc structure and the incipient formation of an alloy
phase [22].
The Sn K edge was also measured during H2 treatment. XANES
analysis shows that Sn is presented initially as SnO2 and reduction
to SnO takes place during the ramp of temperature in H2 (Fig. S4).
From Pt XAS results, it is clear that an interaction between both
metals exists and PtASn alloy formation is detected. However, it
is not possible to extract the same conclusions from Sn K edge data,
as X-ray absorption is a bulk technique and there are three times
more Sn than Pt in the sample and EXAFS results for Pt indicates
that only a small fraction of Sn comes into the alloy. Therefore, it
is not possible to distinguish this phenomenon of alloy formation
in the data from Sn K edge as for the most part SnO is detected.
Coordination numbers obtained from the EXAFS analysis (more
details presented in the Supporting information, see Figs. S5 and
S6) provide an indication of the Pt particle size, and Table 1 sum-
marizes the coordination numbers of the Pt/Al2O3 and PtASn/
Al2O3 catalysts. From the Fourier transforms, it can be concluded
that no peak is present corresponding to a PtAO shell in any of
the samples, indicating that there are no detectable oxygen atoms
in the ﬁrst coordination shell of Pt in the catalyst. This conﬁrms the
complete reduction of Pt in all the samples. A PtAPt coordination
number of N = 7.7 in the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst indicates that if the cat-
alyst is predominantly homogeneous, there are 50–55 atoms in the
Pt nanocluster [12,23]. It is clear that the addition of Sn decreases
the particle size of the Pt nanoclusters as lower coordination num-
bers are obtained for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst material. Moreover,
for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst, it is necessary to introduce another
coordination shell, namely PtASn, at similar distances as the PtAPt
ﬁrst shell (R = 2.76 Å) to obtain a good ﬁt to the data. The presence
of this PtASn coordination shell is evidence for the existence of a
PtASn alloy in the catalyst.
From Table 1, it can be concluded that the Pt particle size in-
creases throughout the whole experiment for the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst.
This is also observed for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst, which also
shows an increase in the degree of PtASn alloying after more dehy-
drogenation–regeneration cycles. But it is clear that the presence of
Sn results in a decrease in the particle size of the Pt when com-
pared to the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst system. Moreover, in the PtASn/
Al2O3 catalyst after 1 and 10 cycles, the PtASn entities differ in
the amount of Sn in the alloy and a progressive Sn enrichment is
observed.
In order to determine the distribution of Pt and Sn in the bime-
tallic structure for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst at the different stages:
fresh, after 1 and 10 cycles, a series of models were created where
the inﬂuence of the bimetal distribution on the coordination num-
ber for the ﬁrst two coordination shells was examined. These sim-
ulations helped us to propose possible particle morphologies based
on the EXAFS. They are summarized in Table 2. The EXAFS results
suggest the formation of 11 atom semispherical-like nanoparticles,
for the fresh PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst, which is poor in Sn. More spe-
ciﬁcally, the Sn atoms are located at the surface of these Pt nano-
particle entities. After one dehydrogenation–regeneration cycle,
both the Pt nanoparticle size and the Sn content in the PtASn alloy
increase but this time resulting in the formation of a core–shell
type structure where Sn is located in the outer layer. However,
after 10 successive dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles, not only
the number of Sn atoms increases, but also their dilution in the
whole Pt nanoparticles. These effects give rise to more homoge-
neous bimetallic entities.
3.3.2. CO-TPD IR analysis
The CO desorption curves shown in Fig. 4 indicate that the addi-
tion of Sn decreases the initial amount of CO adsorbed on the Pt
nanoparticles and also that these surface species desorb at lower
temperatures. To understand this observation, both particle size
and electronic effects have to be taken into account. As discussed
above, Sn decreases the Pt particle size and thus creates more cen-
ters on the surface available for CO adsorption. However, the lower
amount of CO observed here suggests that Sn partially covers those
centers as observed in our predicted models based on the EXAFS
analysis. On the other hand, Pt sites in the PtASn alloy are more
electron deﬁcient since Sn draws electron density away from Pt.
Therefore, the adsorption properties of Pt are also modiﬁed by
the presence of Sn: the more electron-poor Pt species adsorb CO
more weakly and, as a consequence, COads species desorb at lower
temperatures. This is exactly what we observe in Fig. 4.
Table 1
PtAPt and PtASn coordination numbers (CN) from a ﬁrst-shell EXAFS analysis for
reduced Pt/Al2O3 and PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts. See all ﬁtting details in Table S1 in the
Supporting information.
Fresh
After 1 cycle
After 10 cycles
CNPtAPt
CNPtASn
CNPtAPt
CNPtASn
CNPtAPt
CNPtASn
Pt/Al2O3
7.7
–
8.0
–
9.6
–
PtASn/Al2O3
4.4
0.7
5.0
2.1
3.4
4.0
Table 2
Theoretical coordination numbers (CN) and calculated morphologies, number of
atoms (NT) and shape, for the PtASn alloy nanoparticles in a PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst in
the fresh state and after 1 and 10 dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles.
PtASn/Al2O3
CNPtAPt
CNPtASn
NTPt
NTSn
Morphology
Fresh
4.44
0.67
9
2
After 1 cycle
4.96
2.04
16
10
After 10 cycles
3.43
4.10
22
16
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
273
The CO desorption measurements on the samples that had
undergone 1 and 10 dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles, as also
given in Fig. 4, show that the amount of adsorbed CO decreases
after consecutive cycles, most likely due to the increase in particle
size leading to a lower number of adsorption sites on the surface.
The presence of Sn reduces sintering during regeneration so that
the decreasing amount of CO adsorption is lower. An increase in
particle size of PtASn entities after 1 and 10 cycles is also observed
(Table 1), but the differences in the amount of adsorbed CO can be
also ascribed to the Sn enrichment of the PtASn alloy after 10 cy-
cles, covering more sites on the surface. This Sn enrichment could
also explain why CO desorbs at lower temperatures after the 10 cy-
cles experienced by the PtASn catalyst.
Table 3 summarizes the CO stretching frequencies observed for
the Pt and PtASn/Al2O3 samples. A red shift in the CO stretching
frequency for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst is seen when compared to
the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst. The position of the adsorbed CO band is af-
fected by both geometric and electronic effects [24,25]. Since Sn re-
duces the particle size, a lower CO stretching frequency would be
expected as increasing the number of under-coordinated sites
(e.g. edges and corners), results in stronger sites for CO adsorption.
On the other hand, Sn withdraws charge from Pt as was concluded
from the shift to higher energies of the XANES edge in the spec-
trum of the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst (Fig. S3), and therefore, a shift
to a higher frequency is anticipated. Since a shift toward lower
wavenumbers is observed, the structural effect must predominate.
In Table 3, the change in the CO band position is also shown for the
Pt/Al2O3 and PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts after 1 and 10 dehydrogena-
tion–regeneration cycles. As the Pt particle size of the Pt/Al2O3 cat-
alyst increases after the dehydrogenation and regeneration process
(Table 1), it was expected that the CO stretching frequency would
increase [24]. However, a gradual decrease is seen as the catalyst
undergoes more cycles (Table 3).
These observations indicate that the change in particle size
modiﬁes the interaction between Pt and CO, suggesting a modiﬁca-
tion in the Pt adsorption properties which may be due to changes
in the interaction with the support. In the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst, the
particle size after 1 cycle is smaller than in the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst;
however, an increase in the CO stretching frequency is detected.
This is consistent with Sn preferentially locating at highly coordin-
atively unsaturated surface Pt sites as the EXAFS results suggest
(Table 2). Consequently, the degree of unsaturation in the coordi-
nation sphere of Pt sites decreases, while the interactions between
Pt and Sn increase. This results in a modiﬁcation of the electronic
properties and therefore the catalytic properties of Pt.
3.4. Study of the Pt and PtASn nanoparticles activation during H2
reduction
Fig. 5A shows the intensity contour map of the HERFD XANES
spectra acquired of the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst during the ramp of tem-
perature up to 600 C under a H2 ﬂow. It can be concluded that
Pt is initially present as an oxidic Pt phase. During the H2 treatment
at elevated temperatures, the edge shifts to lower energies and the
intensity of the rising absorption edge decreases, indicating that
the reduction in the Pt species takes place at ca. 140–210 C lead-
ing to the formation of metallic Pt (Fig. 5B).
In the case of the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst (Fig. 6A), the reduction
process starts at a similar temperature, resulting in the eventual
formation of Pt(0), but at intermediate temperatures (at ca. 210–
350 C) a new species is observed, which is evidence for the forma-
tion of a PtASn alloy. By increasing the temperature, the total
reduction in Pt took place including the insertion of Sn into the
structure and consequent formation of a PtASn alloy (Fig. 6B) [23].
3.5. Analysis of the Pt–hydrocarbon interaction
The intensity contour map of the HERFD XANES spectra for the
Pt/Al2O3 and PtASn/Al2O3 catalysts acquired during the ramp of
temperature up to 600 C under propane ﬂow is displayed in
Fig. S8. Addition of propane to the Pt-containing catalysts after
H2 reduction induces changes in the XANES spectra. To emphasize
these changes in the spectra, L3 Dl difference spectra were taken,
with the spectrum of the bare metal measured at the same temper-
ature used as a reference [26,27]. These Dl difference spectra for
the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst at 100, 140 and 400 C are shown in Fig. 7A.
The propane-induced effect at 100 C manifests itself as a narrow
negative feature at 11,563 eV and a broader positive peak at
11,567 eV. The negative peak is a result of an edge shift to higher
energies, whereas the positive feature is due to an enhanced inten-
sity in the white-line that is broadened on the high-energy side.
When the temperature increases, the intensity of these features
became enhanced. A maximum in intensity is reached around
140 C and after that they both decrease and the contribution
around 11,567 eV shifts slightly to lower energies.
Fig. 4. Desorption proﬁles obtained from CO-TPD IR experiments on (A) Pt/Al2O3 and (B) PtASn/Al2O3 samples: (a) fresh, (b) after 1 dehydrogenation–regeneration cycle and
(c) 10 dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles.
Table 3
IR stretching frequency of CO adsorbed on reduced Pt/Al2O3 and PtASn/Al2O3
catalysts.
Pt/Al2O3
PtASn/Al2O3
CO stretching frequency (cm1)
Fresh
2061
2051
After 1 cycle
2062
2083
After 10 cycles
2047
2048
274
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
The L3 Dl spectra for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst upon exposure
to propane are shown in Fig. 7B. The change in the spectra is clearly
different from those of the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst as a shift in the edge
position of the spectra to lower energies is observed. As a result,
the negative feature around 11,563 eV seen for the Pt/Al2O3 cata-
lyst is not observed and at the same energies a positive contribu-
tion was detected, overlapping with a peak centered around
11,567 eV. A new very broad yet negative contribution is also ob-
served between 11,570 and 11,578 eV. When the temperature
rises, the intensity of those positive peaks increases and after
120 C they diminish before shifting to lower energies.
The addition of propane to both catalysts induces changes in the
Pt L3 white-line, indicating changes in the electronic structure that
result from the bonding of propane to the metal. We summarize
that the overall dehydrogenation reaction probably involves three
major steps: (i) cleavage of the ﬁrst C-H bond in a dissociative
adsorption step, resulting in an adsorbed propyl group; (ii) cleav-
age of the second CAH bond, resulting in a p- or r-bonding oleﬁn;
(iii) desorption of the oleﬁn. The differences between pure Pt itself
and the PtASn alloy, manifested in the shape of the XANES spectra,
suggest a difference in the types of interaction of the hydrocarbon
on the Pt surfaces [28,29].
In the case of the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst, the above described features
are similar to those observed previously by van Bokhoven and co-
workers in several XAS studies after the adsorption of CO or ethene
on Pt [27,30]. In these works, they explained the increase in the
white-line intensity and the shift of the edge position to higher
energies as being due to the withdrawal of electron density from
small platinum clusters to the adsorbed CO or ethene by means
of 2pAd back-bond. On the other hand, XAS studies performed
in the presence of H2 also report similar peaks in the Dl, this time
ascribed to an induced electron transfer from Pt 6s (or 6p) orbitals
to H atoms [31,32]. Based on this, the observed features in our re-
sults could be ascribed to either the presence of a p-(back)bonded
(actually a combined r and p-bonded) propene species and/or ad-
sorbed hydrogen on Pt. Both gases are products formed during pro-
pane dehydrogenation which correlates well with the catalytic
data whereby the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst is initially very active for this
reaction (Fig. 1). Importantly, we note that the presence of a doubly
bonded (r- and p-(back)bonded) propyl species on the Pt surface
may be difﬁcult to remove from the catalyst surface, resulting in
a type of ‘product poisoning’. Such species may also readily lead
to coke formation and a more permanent form of catalyst poisoning.
However, in the case of the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst, no negative
peak was detected in the Dl XANES spectra. Therefore, the adsorp-
tion of hydrogen can be neglected [31,32]. The shift of the edge po-
sition to lower energies indicates that electron transfer takes place
from the adsorbate to the metal. Such a phenomenon might be ex-
plained by the formation of r-bonded Pt–propene complex, and
since the Pt is electron-poor (as Sn removes charge from it), there
is no additional formation of a p-back-bond. Thus, the overall Pt–pro-
pene interaction is weaker than if a sigma and pi-bonded complex
forms. The IR results presented in Fig. 4 indicate that the interac-
tions between Pt and Sn weaken the chemisorption properties of
Fig. 5. (A) Intensity contour map of the HERFD XANES spectra of a Pt/Al2O3 catalyst acquired during the ramp of temperature up 600 C under a H2 ﬂow and (B) selection of
HERFD XANES spectra of the initial and ﬁnal Pt species formed in the catalyst material.
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
275
Pt sites, leading to weaker interactions between the Pt sites and
CO. Other works from the literature also point toward the addition
of Sn to a Pt catalyst causing a reduction in the strength of interac-
tion of H2, CO and C2H2 with Pt sites [28,33,34]. On other hand, a
recent work [35] shows that sub-nanometer platinum clusters
(Pt 8–10) as those presented here are more active and selective
Fig. 6. (A) Intensity contour map of the HERFD XANES spectra of the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst acquired during the ramp of temperature up 600 C under a H2 ﬂow and (B)
selection of HERFD XANES spectra of the initial, intermediate and ﬁnal Pt species formed in the catalyst material.
Fig. 7. L3-edge Dl difference XANES spectra during the ramp of temperature in propane of (A) the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst at (a) 100, (b) 122 and (c) 400 C and (B) the PtASn/Al2O3
catalyst at (a) 100, (b) 140 and (c) 400 C.
276
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
than Pt surface for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane. This was
explained by the attractive interaction between the under-coordi-
nated Pt and propane. DFT calculations have shown that the initial
adsorption complex between propane and the Pt cluster results in
signiﬁcant charge transfer from a propane CAH bonding orbital to
the cluster favoring the scission of CAH bonds relative to CAC or
C@C explaining the high selectivity to propene.
Accordingly, we can assume that Sn addition leads to both elec-
tronic and structural modiﬁcations of the properties of the Pt nano-
particles, which have the following implications: (i) selective CAH
bond activation is favored over CAC and C@C bond rupture, leading
to high selectivity to propene and (ii) coke precursors, such as
(partly) dehydrogenated hydrocarbons, can easily move on the sur-
face of PtASn particles and thus they migrate from the active sites
to the support before being converted by coke [20,21].
3.6. Study of the Pt and PtASn nanoparticles behavior during
consecutive dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles
The intensity contour map of the HERFD XANES spectra of the
Pt/Al2O3 catalyst acquired during the different treatments at the
reaction temperature of 600 C is given in Fig. 8A. During the reac-
tion in propane, no pronounced changes are observed. Then, after
the ﬁrst propane dehydrogenation reaction, the treatment in oxy-
gen for coke burning leads to Pt entities only partially re-oxidized
on the surface. The next subsequent treatment in H2 to recover the
active sites reduces again the Pt to metallic Pt. After this stage, the
XANES spectrum possesses a more intense and better resolved
white-line (Fig. 8A), indicating that sintering of the Pt nanoparti-
cles takes place [22]. After the second cycle, the same trend is ob-
served. In this case, partial oxidation of the Pt centers on the
surface is reduced due to the bigger size of the Pt particles, which
are known to be more difﬁcult to oxidize. Therefore, in this catalyst
system, successive regeneration cycles result in bigger platinum
nanoparticles; this is also conﬁrmed by the higher coordination
numbers, especially after 10 cycles, as determined from the EXAFS
analysis (Table 1). In Fig. 8B, we propose a general model of the Pt
species present in the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst at different stages of the
successive (re)cycling experiment.
In the case of the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst, the intensity contour
map of the HERFD XANES spectra acquired during the different
treatments is given in Fig. 9A. From the position and shape of
Fig. 8. (A) Intensity contour map of the HERFD XANES spectra of the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst acquired at 600 C during the ﬁrst two propane dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles.
(B) Schematic model of the Pt species during the different treatment stages for the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst.
Fig. 9. (A) Intensity contour map of the HERFD XANES spectra of the Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst acquired at 600 C during the ﬁrst two propane dehydrogenation–regeneration
cycles. (B) Schematic model of the Pt and PtASn species during the different treatment stages for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst.
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
277
XANES spectra, it is clear that during the process of coke burning,
oxygen oxidizes the Sn present in the PtASn alloy, which segre-
gates out of the supported Pt nanoparticles. The subsequent H2
reduction restores the PtASn alloy. In this catalyst material, the
Pt nanoparticle size grows after the regeneration process, but the
growth occurs to a lesser extent than in the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst.
Seemingly, the decoration of Pt particles by Sn could prevent the
Pt sintering phenomenon. Fig. 9B illustrates the different stages
and forms of the Pt and PtASn entities during the successive pro-
pane dehydrogenation–regeneration cycling.
As a ﬁnal step, the same type of experiment has been performed
for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst previously subjected to 10 dehydroge-
nation–regeneration cycles. The results are given in Fig. 10 where it
can be concluded that the variation in particle size is again rather
small and that there is a Sn enrichment of the PtASn alloy at the
Al2O3 surface.
4. Conclusions
Detailed information regarding the deactivating behavior of
Al2O3-supported Pt and PtASn catalysts has been obtained before,
during and after propane dehydrogenation and subsequent cata-
lyst dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles under industrially rele-
vant reaction conditions. This has been made possible by making
use of a combination of complementary characterization tech-
niques, including combined in situ UV–Vis/Raman, in situ HERFD
XANES, EXAFS and CO-TPD IR spectroscopy. In particular, attention
has focused, for the ﬁrst time, upon understanding the effect that
multiple reaction–regeneration cycles have on the physicochemi-
cal properties of the catalyst materials. This includes the reducibil-
ity of Pt and Sn, the extent of SnAPt alloying, sintering of Pt
nanoparticles and the surface properties of Pt. The main ﬁndings
of this comprehensive study can be summarized as follows:
(i) As a promoter, Sn has a great inﬂuence on the starting Pt
phase. It reduces the average size of the Pt particles and
forms an alloy with Pt. This interaction modiﬁes the Pt elec-
tronic properties leading to more electron-poor, active parti-
cles exhibiting a higher propene turnover and improved
catalytic stability;
(ii) Sn not only modiﬁes the electronic properties of Pt and
therefore the activation of propane, but also produces a
drain-off effect. The Pt L3 Dl XANES data revealed that the
interaction of propene with the Pt surface appears stronger
for the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst than for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst
leading to a partial blocking of the active site and therefore
a lower propane conversion. This may also explain the
higher extent of coke formation on this catalyst material,
whereas the presence of Sn keeps the Pt sites clean from
coke deposits thereby increasing the catalytic stability;
(iii) Sn segregates from the PtASn alloy during coke burning, and
this phenomenon could have a positive effect by stabilizing
the supported Pt nanoparticles against sintering; and
(iv) Re-activation treatments in H2 are necessary in order to
regenerate the active and selective PtASn alloy phases. How-
ever, multiple dehydrogenation–regeneration cycles result
in a gradual Sn enrichment of the alloy, which leads to a
decrease in the overall dehydrogenation activity.
Acknowledgments
Financial support for this work comes from BASF and NRSC-
Catalysis. The authors wish to acknowledge the following people
for their contributions: The Sample Environment Support Service
(SESS) of ESRF for providing the in situ cell for the experiments
at ID26, ESRF; the beamline staff for help in the setup/data collec-
tion at DUBBLE, ESRF; Satu Korhonen and Luis Aramburo for their
help during these experiments; and Matt O’Brien for his help in the
Raman data processing. We also thank NWO-CW for ﬁnancial sup-
port (VENI grant to AMB) and for beamtime access to the ESRF
beamlines.
Appendix A. Supplementary material
Supplementary data associated with this article can be found, in
the online version, at doi:10.1016/j.jcat.2010.09.018.
References
[1] M. Eramo, Petrochemical Industry Conference Raw Materials Committee
Meeting, 2004.
[2] D. Sanﬁlippo, Cattech 4 (2000) 56–73.
[3] D. Akporiaye, S.F. Jensen, U. Olsbye, F. Rohr, E. Rytter, M. Ronnekleiv, A.I.
Spjelkavik, A. Novel, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 40 (2001) 4741–4748.
[4] E. Rytter, H. Bolt, CatCon2000 Proceedings, The Catalyst Group, Spring House,
PA, 2000.
[5] H. Abrevaya, T. Imai, (UOP), US Patent 4608,360, 1986; T. Imai, (UOP), US
Patent 4716,143, 1987; T. Imai, (UOP), US Patent 4762,960, 1988; T. Imai, H.
Abrevaya, J.C. Bricker, D.-Y. Jan, (UOP), US Patent 4786,625, 1988.
[6] R. Burch, A.J. Mitchell, Appl. Catal. 6 (1983) 121–128.
[7] O.A. Bariås, A. Holmen, E.A. Blekkan, Catal. Today 24 (1995) 361–364.
[8] J. Llorca, N. Homs, J. León, J. Sales, J.L.G. Fierro, P. Ramirez de la Piscina, Appl.
Catal. A 189 (1999) 77–86.
Fig. 10. (A) Intensity contour map of XANES spectra acquired at 600 C during the 11th cycle for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst. (B) Schematic model of the Pt species during the
different treatment stages for the PtASn/Al2O3 catalyst.
278
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
[9] C.L. Padro, S.R. de Miguel, A.A. Castro, O.A. Scelza, in: C.H. Bartholomew, G.A.
Fuentes (Eds.), Catalyst Deactivation 1997, vol. 111, 1997, pp. 191–198.
[10] G. Guilera, B. Gorges, S. Pascarelli, H. Vitoux, M.A. Newton, C. Prestipino, Y.
Nagai, N. Hara, J. Synchr. Rad. 16 (2009) 628–634.
[11] T.A. Nijhuis, S.J. Tinnemans, T. Visser, B.M. Weckhuysen, Phys. Chem. Chem.
Phys. 5 (2003) 4361–4365;
S.M. Bennici, B.M. Vogelaar, T.A. Nijhuis, B.M. Weckhuysen, Angew. Chem. Int.
Ed. 46 (2007) 5412–5416.
[12] A.M. Beale, B.M. Weckhuysen, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 12 (2010) 5562–5574.
[13] S.J. Tinnemans, M.H.F. Kox, T.A. Nijhuis, T. Visser, B.M. Weckhuysen, Phys.
Chem. Chem. Phys. 7 (2005) 211–216.
[14] J. Robertson, Diamond-like amorphous carbon, Mater. Sci. Eng. Rep. 37 (2002)
129–281.
[15] F. Tuinstra, J.L. Koenig, J. Chem. Phys. 53 (1970) 1126–1130.
[16] A.C. Ferrari, J. Robertson, Phys. Rev. B 61 (2000) 14095.
[17] R.T. Vang, K. Honkala, S. Dahl, E.K. Vestergaard, J. Schnadt, E. Lægsgaard, B.S.
Clausen, J.K. Nørskov, F. Besenbacher, Nat. Mater. 4 (2005) 160.
[18] R.M. Rioux, H. Song, J.D. Hoefelmeyer, P. Yang, G.A. Somorjai, J. Phys. Chem. B
109 (6) (2004) 2192–2202.
[19] M.L. Toebes, Y. Zhang, J. Hájek, T.A. Nijhuis, J.H. Bitter, A.J. van Dillen, D.Y.
Murzin, D.C. Koningsberger, K.P. de Jong, J. Catal. 226 (2004) 215–225.
[20] H. Lieske, A. Sárkány, J. Völter, Appl. Catal. 30 (1987) 69–80.
[21] M. Santhosh Kumar, D. Chen, A. Holmen, J.C. Walmsley, Catal. Today 142
(2009) 17–23.
[22] M. Fernández-García, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 44 (2002) 59–121.
[23] D. Bazin, D. Sayers, J.J. Rehr, C. Mottet, J. Phys. Chem. B 101 (1997) 5332–
5336.
[24] P. Hollins, Surf. Sci. Rep. 16 (1992) 51–94.
[25] T. Visser, T.A. Nijhuis, M.J.A. van der Eerden, K. Jenken, Y. Ji, W. Bras, S.
Nikitenko, Y. Ikeda, M. Lepage, B.M. Weckhuysen, J. Phys. Chem. B 109 (2005)
3822–3831.
[26] M. Teliska, W.E. O’Grady, D.E. Ramaker, J. Phys. Chem. B 109 (2005) 8076–
8084.
[27] E. Bus, D.E. Ramaker, J.A. van Bokhoven, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 129 (2007) 8094–
8102.
[28] P. Biloen, F.M. Dautzenberg, W.M.H. Sachtler, J. Catal. 50 (1977) 77–86.
[29] I. Lee, F. Zaera, J. Catal. 269 (2010) 359–366.
[30] O.V. Safonova, M. Tromp, J.A. van Bokhoven, F.M.F. de Groot, J. Evans, P. Glatzel,
J. Phys. Chem. B 110 (2006) (1616) 2–16164.
[31] K. Asakura, T. Kubota, W. Chun, Y. Iwasawa, K. Ohtani, T. Fujikawa, J. Synchr.
Rad. 6 (1999) 439–441.
[32] D.E.
Ramaker,
B.L.
Mojet,
M.T.
Garriga
Oostenbrink,
J.T.
Miller,
D.C.
Koningsberger, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 1 (1999) 2293–2302.
[33] R.D. Cortright, J.A. Dumesic, J. Catal. 148 (1994) 771–778.
[34] H. Verbeek, W.M.H. Sachtler, J. Catal. 42 (1976) 257–267.
[35] S. Vajda, M.J. Pellin, J.P. Greeley, C.L. Marshall, L.A. Curtiss, G.A. Ballentine, J.W.
Elam, S. Catillon-Mucherie, P.C. Redfern, F. Mehmood, P. Zapol, Nat. Mater. 8
(2009) 213–216.
A. Iglesias-Juez et al. / Journal of Catalysis 276 (2010) 268–279
279
