Catalytic limitations on alkane dehydrogenation under H2 deficient conditions relevant to membrane reactors†
Ethane dehydrogenation, a reaction that converts ethane to ethylene and H2, is an equilibrium limited reaction, typically practiced at high temperature and low pressure in order to favor higher ethylene yields. Membrane reactors have been developed to remove H2 through the membrane walls, thereby changing the thermodynamically achievable ethylene yields as a function of H2 removal, possibly allowing for lower temperature and higher pressure reactor conditions to be realized. This work focuses on understanding the impact that these new process conditions, and specifically the new gas-phase compositions (i.e. higher ethylene and lower H2 partial pressure), have on dehydrogenation catalysts. Assessment of the impact on catalysis was carried out by feeding selected gas-phase compositions expected in a membrane reactor, by using either batch or fixed-bed units with ethane/ethylene/H2 co-feeds. Thus, by using selected co-feeds, we can simulate any conversion and any H2 removal level that may be achievable in a membrane reactor. The experiments were carried out using a highly active and selective dehydrogenation catalyst, PtSn-K/MFI. The results demonstrate that equilibrium conversion for ethane dehydrogenation is achievable at 600 °C and 1 atm on PtSn–K/MFI. However, upon simulating H2-removal conditions, the new equilibrium conversions were not achievable. The inability to obtain the new equilibrium conversions at simulated H2 removal is due to, in part, deleterious reactions, most notably coking. Coking reactions lead to deactivation of the catalyst, and these coking reactions are accelerated by H2 removal. Moreover, prior to significant catalyst deactivation, the dehydrogenation reactions that lead to coke produce additional H2, which further limit ethylene yields due to re-hydrogenation of ethylene. Thus, while thermodynamics predicts higher olefin yields due to H2 removal based solely on the ethane dehydrogenation reaction pathway, the substantial effect the process conditions have on catalysis and coking reactions limits achievable yields, and must be accounted for when assessing H2 removal and membrane technology.
Broader context
Olefins are important precursors to materials such as plastics, rubbers, lubricants, surfactants and detergents. Olefin production is carried out industrially on large scale, often via dehydrogenation of alkanes. As demand for the materials above are growing, improvements in the processes and catalysts used for olefin production are of interest, aimed to lower the cost and energy intensity of olefin production. One such method is the use of membrane reactors, which can remove hydrogen from the reactor, enabling higher single-pass conversions. In our work, we demonstrate the effect that hydrogen removal has on catalytic materials for dehydrogenation, by implementing a systematic approach to simulate the gas-phase environment a catalytic material may see in a membrane reactor. These results demonstrate that while higher conversions are achievable, coking reactions are also accelerated under conditions with higher olefin and lower hydrogen partial pressures. Coking not only accelerates unwanted catalyst deactivation, but it also limits olefin yields due to the concomitant hydrogen byproduct produced during coke formation. This work provides an experimental framework to test new catalytic materials for applications where hydrogen-deficient conditions are expected.
Introduction
Olefins are important precursors to materials such as plastics, rubbers, lubricants, surfactants and detergents, and as such, their industrial production is important. One method of olefin production is via alkane dehydrogenation, which is a class of reaction that converts alkanes to olefins and H2, and is practiced industrially on large scale.1 For example, ethylene production is principally achieved today by ethane steam cracking, a non-catalytic thermal process that occurs at high temperature (typically >800 °C) and lower pressure (typically <3 atm), producing ∼200 million metric tons of ethylene per year. Other olefins, like propylene, can be produced via catalytic dehydrogenation from their respective alkanes,2 and implementation of a catalyst enables reaction temperatures lower than steam cracking (e.g. ∼600 °C compared to ∼800 °C). For example, UOP3,4 uses a PtSn based catalyst supported on alumina for the direct dehydrogenation of propane in a process known as Oleflex™, that operates between ∼580–650 °C and ∼2 atm. Air Products/Houdry Division developed a chromium oxide based catalyst supported on alumina that is now produced by Clariant and licensed by CB&I Lummus, known as Catofin®, that operates between 560–650 °C and <1 atm,1 to produce light olefins such as propylene and isobutene. Importantly, both processes result in concomitant production of H2. Furthermore, some processes, like Oleflex™, co-feed H2 to help limit catalyst deactivation. There are many reasons for the different process conditions when comparing steam cracking and catalytic dehydrogenation, and two major factors are the thermodynamics and kinetics of the alkane dehydrogenation reactions. If only the dehydrogenation reactions are considered (i.e. not including other unwanted side-reactions like cracking/hydrogenolysis and coking), the maximum thermodynamic conversion for a given alkane under a specific temperature and pressure can be calculated, designated as the equilibrium conversion (Xeq). In general, alkane dehydrogenation reactions have a (i) positive ΔH°, (ii) a positive ΔS°, and (iii) are volume expansion reactions, such that Xeq increases at higher temperature and lower pressure. The Xeq for ethane dehydrogenation at 1 and 5 atm, and for propane dehydrogenation at 1 atm are plotted in Fig. 1.5 Two aspects to note are: (i) propane Xeq is greater than ethane Xeq at the same temperature and pressure, and (ii) ethane Xeq at 1 atm is greater than ethane Xeq at 5 atm, at the same temperature. Thus, if appreciable conversions of ethane to ethylene are desired, for example 50% conversion, the process must be run at elevated temperatures (∼720 °C at 1 atm) compared to propane dehydrogenation processes (∼605 °C at 1 atm); these values are purely based on thermodynamics. Kinetics also play a factor, and the high temperatures in steam crackers enable the thermal radical reactions to proceed at sufficient rates. In contrast, at the lower temperatures used for propane dehydrogenation, thermal reactivity is slower and thus catalysts are required to increase the reaction rates. Additionally, catalysts provide more control of the product selectivity, where optimal catalysts favor olefin formation and limit unwanted cracking and coking reactions.
Fig. 1 Equilibrium conversion of ethane and propane dehydrogenation at selected pressures and temperatures.
The thermodynamic Xeq limitations for alkane dehydrogenation (Fig. 1) are true for any closed system; however, if the system is perturbed, for example by H2 removal, these limits can change as a manifestation of Le Chatelier's principle.6 In this regard, routes to perturb the dehydrogenation system have been pursued, and one route is the use of membrane reactors which can selectively transport H2 through the membrane walls (Fig. 2), thereby increasing Xeq. It is important to note that with H2 removal, equilibrium conversion (Xeq) changes, but the reaction equilibrium constant, Keq, does not; in this paper, normal Xeq will refer to equilibrium conversion with no H2 removal. As conversion is one metric that is important in defining a process, H2 removal reactors may enable non-traditional process conditions (e.g. lower temperature and/or higher pressure), which can be desirable because it can lower the energy intensity of these large scale industrial processes. The increase in Xeq is dependent on the H2 removal efficiency, and this is demonstrated in Fig. 3; more significant changes in Xeq require higher levels of H2 removal (Fig. 3). It can be seen that similar equilibrium conversions are possible at 5 atm with 0% H2 removal and 10 atm with 50% H2, both of which are at 600 °C, thus potentially enabling higher pressure process conditions. Lower temperatures are also possible, as shown in Fig. S2 (ESI†). For example, similar equilibrium conversions can be obtained at 600 °C with 0% H2 removal and 450 °C with 99% H2 removal, both at 5 atm.
Fig. 2 Illustration of membrane reactor transporting H2 out of the reactor where ethane dehydrogenation occurs allowing for higher conversion to ethylene.
Fig. 3 Equilibrium conversion for ethane dehydrogenation at 600 °C as a function of (i) H2 removal (values listed in figure) as defined in eqn (1) for the final gas composition and (ii) reactor pressure.
In this work, the H2 removal efficiency is defined by eqn (1) by comparing the relative pressures of H2 and ethylene in the feed, because the reaction stoichiometry in ethane dehydrogenation (EDH) with no H2 removal should produce equal amounts of each. Eqn (1) is defined in this fashion solely for the purpose of defining the maximum efficiency of a membrane reactor. In real membrane reactor systems, the H2 flux is dynamic and H2 removal will be determined by the membrane attributes, the mechanism of H2 removal, and rates of transport versus dehydrogenation rates. Indeed, models have been developed to describe H2 removal membranes,7–9 but this is not the focus of this manuscript. Our focus was to simulate specific conditions catalytic materials may see in a membrane environment.
(1)
Different types of membranes10 and reactor systems have been used, including metallic membranes for H2 transport,11,12 and electrochemical devices for proton transfer.13–16 Results for both ethane7,17,18 and propane19,20 dehydrogenation have been reported, demonstrating higher conversions than normal Xeq.21–23 Additionally, new processes for ethylene production has been recently reviewed.24 It is important to note that while the purpose of H2 removal is to increase equilibrium conversion, some current industrial processes co-feed H2 to limit coke formation and catalyst deactivation, as stated above for Oleflex™. As such, these antagonistic impacts of H2 removal and addition must be accounted for.
Thus, the focus of this work is catalysis, with the aim to assess how changes in H2 and ethylene concentrations in a membrane reactor, or any H2 removal technology, will affect dehydrogenation catalysis. While the thermodynamic effects are easily calculated, predicted and modeled,25 other deleterious reactions like cracking and coking are non-trivial to predict and are often not included in models,7,9,26 but are nevertheless important to understand and assess. These effects will impact the conversions and yields achieved, and previous reports note that predicted model yields do not match experimental yields.7 In this work, a method was developed to simulate what a catalyst will experience in a membrane reactor under a large range of conversions and H2 removal levels, without having to use a membrane reactor.
Results and discussion
In this work, a platinum–tin–potassium catalyst supported on all-silica MFI, PtSn–K/MFI, that has been previously reported to be a highly active, selective, and stable propane dehydrogenation catalyst was used for ethane dehydrogenation catalysis.27–29 The material consists of sub-nanometric PtSn clusters, which were stable when cycled through reducing and oxidizing conditions. The small particles give optimal atom economy,30,31 and their stability under oxidizing conditions may allow the material to be regenerated multiple times after it inevitably is deactivated by coke that is produced during catalytic dehydrogenation. First, the material was tested for ethane dehydrogenation (EDH) in a fixed-bed reactor at 600 °C, ∼1.1 atm and a weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) of 10 h−1; ethane conversion as a function of time is shown in Fig. 4. Over the course of 50 h time-on-stream (TOS), ethylene selectivity was >99.5%. The higher olefin selectivity compared to propane dehydrogenation may be expected as hydrogenolysis of ethane has been reported to be more challenging compared with higher alkanes.32 The initial conversion is near Xeq, which is ∼16.5% under the process conditions, but catalyst deactivation brings down ethane conversion to ∼12.5% after 50 h TOS. In this manuscript, experiments that do not co-feed ethylene (i.e. ethane is the only hydrocarbon feed) is denoted normal EDH.
Fig. 4 EDH on PtSn–K/MFI at 600 °C, ∼1.1 atm total pressure, WHSV = 10 h−1 using 95% ethane/5% He feed (every 50th data point shown in circles).
In addition to our efforts to understand normal EDH (i.e. ethane dehydrogenation without H2 removal), the catalyst was tested under conditions that would exist in a membrane reactor (i.e. a reactor that is actively removing H2) by using traditional fixed-bed or batch reactors. This was done by co-feeding ethane/ethylene/H2 in selected ratios to simulate a given (i) conversion, as defined by eqn (2), and (ii) H2 removal level, as defined by eqn (1). For example, in order to simulate 10% conversion with 0% H2 removal, our feed would consist of a 9 : 1 : 1 ethane : ethylene : H2 feed ratio. If we wanted to simulate the same conversion but with 50% H2 removal, the feed would consist of a 9 : 1 : 0.5 ethane : ethylene : H2 feed ratio. It is important to note here that any conversion and H2 removal can be simulated, which includes gas compositions that are already past Xeq, as well as compositions that have not been experimentally reported in membrane reactors. Furthermore, it should be noted that as catalysis occurs in the experiments shown below, H2 production (or consumption) can occur, and thus the H2 removal level changes with conversion, as opposed to an active membrane which is intended to continuously remove H2. Thus, the H2 removal level is defined by the feed composition and not the resulting gas composition after catalysis.
(2)
With a given simulated feed, the Xeq for that system can be calculated. Examples of the achievable equilibrium conversions at a range of simulated feeds are shown in Fig. 5, for a reactor temperature of 600 °C, and selected reactor pressure and simulated H2 removal levels at the reactor inlet.5 In Fig. 5, the blue curve represents the achievable equilibrium conversion (Xeq) for each simulated feed, and the red curve represents the difference between the achievable equilibrium conversion (Xeq) and the simulated feed conversion (Xsim). The red curve, therefore, indicates the additional conversion that can be experimentally observed with the given feed. When the red curve goes to zero and becomes negative, this indicates that the feed condition has a composition that has more products than achievable by the ethane dehydrogenation equilibrium, and therefore suggests that if this feed composition is tested, ethylene hydrogenation should occur (i.e. conversions past the solid black lines). The point where the red curve goes to zero also indicates what the maximum Xeq is for a membrane reactor that removes H2 at the selected temperature, pressure, and H2 removal level. The plots in Fig. 5 are solely based on the reversible ethane dehydrogenation reaction, and do not account for side-reactions like hydrogenolysis or coking.
Fig. 5 Selected examples showing effect of simulated feed conversion on thermodynamic Xeq at 600 °C. Dashed lines: normal Xeq. Solid lines: maximum Xeq at selected H2 removal level. Blue curve: Xeq at simulated feed conversion (Xsim). Red curve: difference between Xeq and Xsim. Note the substantial effect going from 90% to 98% H2-removal on the 5 atm cases (middle and left).
Simulated feed experiments were carried out in both batch and flow reactors, and several of the batch studies are described here. The batch reactor used for these studies was a gas-phase recirculating loop reactor, where catalysis occurs in a packed-bed and the reactor effluent was recycled to pass through the catalyst bed repeatedly, such that the reactor behaves as a well-mixed batch reactor (see Fig. S1, ESI†). One series of experiments is shown in Fig. 6, where consecutive experiments on the same catalyst bed were performed with each successive experiment using a simulated conversion that was equal to the final conversion from the previous experiment, but with 90% H2 removal. Specifically, the first experiment was normal EDH (i.e. 100% ethane feed), the second experiment had a simulated conversion of 18%, the third experiment had a simulated conversion of 26%, and the forth had a simulated conversion of 32% (see Table 1). As can be seen in Fig. 6, by starting new experiments with equal conversion as the experiment previous, but less H2 (i.e. simulated H2 removal), higher conversions are achieved. This is the expected result, based on the shift in Xeq due to lower H2 partial pressures. However, and very importantly, equilibrium conversion is only achieved in the first normal EDH experiment, not in the simulated feed experiments. At higher simulated conversions, we move further away from Xeq, indicating that under more severe membrane conditions, obtaining Xeq is more challenging (Fig. 6).
Fig. 6 Consecutive ethane dehydrogenation experiments at 600 °C with successive increases in simulated conversions and 90% H2 removal (see Table 1). Reaction progress and gas composition (top): black, ethane; red, ethylene; blue, methane. Reaction conversion (bottom): experimental conversion (red) and simulated equilibrium conversion, Xeq (blue).
Table 1 Experimental conditions and feed partial pressures for consecutive dehydrogenation testsa
Exp. (#) Temp. (°C) Ethane (Torr) Ethylene (Torr) H2 (Torr) Sim. conv. (%) H2 rem. (%)
1b 600 570 0 0 0 0
2 600 470 101 10 18 90
3 600 421 150 15 26 90
4 600 392 182 19 32 90
a Total reactor pressure was 900 Torr, where the balance is He. b Experiment 1 was normal EDH.
One benefit to using a batch reactor for these experiments is that the gas mixture does not have a fixed residence time, as is the case in a flow reactor at a specific WHSV. Instead, the experiment allows us to observe the gas phase concentration changes with time, and may also allow us to observe the approach to equilibrium. For example, in Experiment 1 (Fig. 6), it can be seen that in less than 20 min, the conversion of ethane to ethylene appears to be complete, and for the next 40 min of the experiment, little change can be observed; furthermore, the measured conversion is approximately equal to the theoretically calculated equilibrium conversion (normal Xeq). Thus, it can be stated that normal Xeq can be reached at the given process conditions. Analysis of Experiments 2–4 display similar features, most notably that the gas phase concentrations appear to stop changing at extended times, albeit taking longer to achieve this pseudo-steady-state in the successive experiments. However, the experimental conversion is less than the calculated dehydrogenation Xeq. This was a key observation which leads to the question: why is Xeq not achieved for the simulated dehydrogenation experiments?
Since the previous set of experiments used one catalyst load for all 4 experiments, an additional experiment was done with a fresh load of catalyst to determine to what extent the failure to reach equilibrium might be dependent on catalyst deactivation, as catalyst deactivation does occur over the course of this set of experiments (see Fig. S3, ESI† for assessment of catalyst deactivation). This was done to demonstrate that catalyst deactivation over time was not the major factor causing the inability to achieve Xeq. A comparison of the fresh experiment, with a new load of catalyst, and Experiment 1 above are shown in Fig. 7; here, the fresh catalyst load was subjected to 34% simulated conversion, this time with 100% H2 removal (i.e. no H2 in feed), and a higher catalyst loading to allow for higher conversions if achievable. Surprisingly, it was observed that not only is Xeq not achieved for the simulated experiment, but conversion reaches a maximum below Xeq and then conversion drops with additional residence time, indicating that ethylene hydrogenation to ethane is occurring. The observation of the microscopic reverse of EDH occurring under these reaction conditions indicated that equilibrium is now defined by more than the ethane dehydrogenation reaction. We hypothesized that the observed hydrogenation of ethylene may be due to the presence of additional H2 in the gas phase, created by decomposition of the hydrocarbons to hydrogen and coke.
Fig. 7 Ethane dehydrogenation and simulated feed experiment at 600 °C, each with a fresh catalyst load. Reaction progress and gas composition (top): black, ethane; red, ethylene. Reaction conversion (bottom): experimental conversion (red) and simulated equilibrium conversion, Xeq (blue).
In order to analyze H2 production in the experiment shown above in Fig. 7 (i.e. starting with 100% H2 removal and 34% simulated conversion at 600 °C), the H2 partial pressure can be deduced by taking the difference between the measured total system pressure of the batch reactor and the measured pressures of the hydrocarbons by GC-FID. If only ethane dehydrogenation is occurring, the pressure of H2 produced should be equal to the pressure of the ethylene produced and experimentally measured, based on the 1 : 1 EDH reaction stoichiometry; this calculation ignores H2 loss from ethane hydrogenolysis, as selectivity to methane is negligible under the reaction conditions. This calculated system pressure based on stoichiometric H2 production, however, does not match the experimentally measured reactor pressure (Fig. 8, left). Alternatively, if we make the assumption that the dehydrogenation equilibrium is achieved, Keq, we can use the experimentally measured partial pressures of ethane and ethylene to calculate the H2 partial pressure (Fig. 8, right), as shown in eqn (3), with a fixed value of Keq. This calculated method can thus predict excess H2 formed from coking, a kinetically limited (i.e. not equilibrated) process, from both ethane and ethylene as excess H2 is a function of the coke precursor. As can be seen in Fig. 8 (right), the measured and calculated pressure match well after the first several minutes of reaction required to reach equilibrium, when using eqn (3) for H2 partial pressure. Thus, these data suggest that the EDH reaction is indeed equilibrated; however, more H2 is being produced than that expected from ethane dehydrogenation alone, suggesting that deleterious hydrocarbon decomposition to coke is contributing to the increased H2 partial pressure, and thereby limiting achievable conversion.
(3)
These results are imperative to further our understanding of EDH catalysis under H2 deficient conditions. While Xeq was achieved under normal EDH conditions, Xeq was not achieved under simulated membrane H2 deficient conditions, and the harsher simulated conditions (i.e. higher simulated conversions and higher H2 removal) caused the farthest deviation from the presumed achievable Xeq (Fig. S4, ESI†). It is proposed that the reason for this behavior is that coking reactions are competitive with dehydrogenation reactions; this may seem obvious as coking is an inherent problem in dehydrogenation catalysis from the standpoint of deactivation. However, the magnitude of coking is exacerbated by the simulated membrane conditions. Thus, higher simulated conversions and higher H2 removal levels accelerate coking reactions and thereby limit the achievable conversions due to excess H2 production from hydrocarbon decomposition. This must be taken into account when assessing the benefit of any potential H2 removal membrane reactor.
Fig. 8 Comparison of unit pressure (green) and calculated gas pressure (magenta) for simulated feed experiment shown in Fig. 7 (100% H2 removal, 34% simulated conversion, 600 °C). Ethane and ethylene pressures are experimentally measured, and the H2 pressure was calculated as described in the plot titles. The calculated system pressures (magenta) are equal to the measured ethane, ethylene and methane pressures plus the calculated H2 pressure. Unit pressure (green) increases at each data point are due to pressure changes during the GC sampling-loop valve change.
Additional evidence for the increased rate of coking reactions under simulated conditions was provided by fixed-bed reactor data. First, normal EDH was carried out to achieve ∼80% of Xeq, and is shown as the black curve in Fig. 9, at 600 °C, 5 atm and a WHSV of 100 h−1 (Xeq = ∼8%). Under these conditions, selectivities to ethylene of > 99% are achieved, and a slow and steady deactivation is observed, as assessed by the decrease in ethylene yield over 50 h. In order to assess the effect that simulated membrane conditions have on catalyst deactivation, a second experiment was carried out, with a fresh catalyst load, in which the feed was switched between normal EDH (blue curve, Fig. 9) and 25% simulated conversion and 100% H2 removal (red curve, Fig. 9). Several aspects to note are: (i) during the simulated feed, the simulated equilibrium conversion/ethylene yield (solid black line) is not obtained, consistent with the batch reactor studies above, and (ii) after running the simulated feed for 5.5 h, and then returning to normal EDH, the catalyst activity (blue curve) as compared to the first normal EDH experiment (black curve) is significantly lower (i.e. ∼1% conversion compared to ∼5% conversion), clearly demonstrating that rapid catalyst deactivation occurs during the simulated membrane conditions. Thus, consistent with the batch reactor studies above, under simulated membrane conditions, Xeq is not achieved, and accelerated catalyst deactivation occurs, in large part due to coking. The thermodynamic impact of excess H2 production from coke can be estimated, by assuming ethylene conversion to coke and two equivalents of H2 (Fig. S5, ESI†), and indeed shows that increased H2 will limit ethylene yields and at some point, can cause ethylene hydrogenation to ethane to occur. Physical evidence for coke formation is provided by temperature programmed oxidation (TPO) of the spent catalyst sample, producing CO2 during the oxidative study (Fig. S6, ESI†), a combustion product from coke and O2. Additionally, the sample is dark black after the EDH catalysis, indicative of coke formation, and white after TPO, indicative of coke combustion. Further work on-going is aimed at quantification of coke as a function of EDH and simulated process conditions.
Fig. 9 Comparative tests of normal and simulated ethane dehydrogenation on PtSn-K/MFI at 600 °C, 5 atm, using 90% ethane/10% He feed, and WSHV of 100 h−1. Black curve: normal EDH with no simulated feed interruptions. Blue curve: normal EDH with simulated feed interruptions. Red curve: simulated feed with 25% simulated conversion (dashed line) and 100% H2 removal. Solid black line represents simulated equilibrium conversion for selected simulated feed. Equilibrium conversion of ethane for normal EDH is ∼8% at 600 °C and 5 atm.
Summary & conclusions
In conclusion, experiments in batch and fixed-bed reactors were conducted, aimed to assess the effects a membrane reactor would have on dehydrogenation catalysts. As membrane reactors are designed and intended to remove H2, these experiments “simulated” membrane reactor conditions by using ethane/ethylene/H2 co-feeds, allowing the catalyst to experience any gas composition that may be expected in a membrane reactor. The catalyst implemented for this work was PtSn–K/MFI, a reported material known to be highly active, selective and stable for propane dehydrogenation.28 The results obtained above indicate that two major factors need to be accounted for if membrane reactors will be implemented with a dehydrogenation catalyst. First, the increased thermodynamic Xeq possible with H2 removal in a membrane cannot be assumed as experimentally achievable, in large part because under membrane conditions (higher ethylene and lower H2 partial pressures), coking reactions are accelerated with concomitant expulsion of additional H2 (Fig. 10), thereby limiting conversions and yields. Second, the accelerated coking reactions result in more rapid catalyst deactivation, significantly lowering catalyst lifetime. Catalyst regeneration studies under these reaction conditions are, therefore, important to the viability of any catalytic membrane reactor process. Thus, while membrane reactors may present an opportunity for step-out changes in reactor design and product yields, catalysts will need to be designed to operate under a new set of process conditions; these conditions are substantially different than those that have been optimized over the previous decades, which focus on normal dehydrogenation conditions. There are likely optimal H2 removal levels, but these levels depend on both the process and catalyst. The studies above provide experimental methods to determine these optimal conditions for a given catalyst, without requiring the use of membrane reactors. The significant effect a membrane reactor may have on catalysis must be accounted for going forward, and these affects observed are likely true for any hydrocarbon conversion that may suffer from coke production.
Fig. 10 Schematic mechanism of ethane dehydrogenation and coke formation. The blue H2 indicates the additional H2 that would be removed via a membrane reactor, which accelerates irreversible coke formation under the reaction conditions.
Experimental section
PtSn-K/MFI was synthesized according to literature procedures.27 Catalytic experiments were run on gas-phase well-mixed batch reactors or fixed-bed flow reactors; for more details, please see the ESI.†
Author contributions
The manuscript was written through contributions of all authors. Investigation by all authors. Writing – original draft by A. S. Writing – review and editing by A. S., R. M., M. P., S. Y., and E. G.
Conflicts of interest
There are no conflicts of interest to declare.
Acknowledgements
We thank Allen Burton, Scott Weigel and Trong Pham for the synthesis of PtSn-K/MFI. We thank Xiaoying Bao, JR Johnson, Bob Larson and Alyssa Love for helpful discussions.
References
J. J. H. B. Sattler , J. Ruiz-Martinez , E. Santillan-Jimenez and B. M. Weckhuysen , Catalytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes on metals and metal oxides, Chem. Rev., 2014, 114 , 10613 —10653 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
Y. H. Dai , X. Gao , Q. J. Wang , X. Y. Wan , C. M. Zhou and Y. H. Yang , Recent progress in heterogeneous metal and metal oxide catalysts for direct dehydrogenation of ethane and propane, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2021, 50 , 5590 —5630 RSC .
T. Imai , H. Abrevaya , J. C. Bricker and D.-Y. Jan , US Pat. , 4827072, 1989 .
T. Imai and J. C. Bricker , US Pat. , 4652687, 1987 .
Equilibrium conversions calculated using Aspen Plus V11.
H. Le Chatelier Comptes Rendus, 1884, 99 , 786 Search PubMed .
E. Gobina , K. Hou and R. Hughes , Ethane dehydrogenation in a catalytic membrane reactor coupled with a reactive sweep gas, Chem. Eng. Sci., 1995, 50 , 2311 —2319 CrossRef CAS .
E. V. Shelepova , A. A. Vedyagin , I. V. Mishakov and A. S. Noskov , Mathematical modeling of the propane dehydrogenation process in the catalytic membrane reactor, Chem. Eng. J., 2011, 176 , 151 —157 CrossRef .
S. W. Choi , D. S. Sholl , S. Nair , J. S. Moore , Y. J. Liu , R. S. Dixit and J. G. Pendergast , Modeling and process simulation of hollow fiber membrane reactor systems for propane dehydrogenation, AlChE J., 2017, 63 , 4519 —4531 CrossRef CAS .
R. Dittmeyer , V. Hollein and K. Daub , Membrane reactors for hydrogenation and dehydrogenation processes based on supported palladium, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem., 2001, 173 , 135 —184 CrossRef CAS .
H. S. Roh , M. S. Park , J. S. Chang , Y. K. Park and S. E. Park , Dehydrogenation of propane over Pd-composite membrane, J. Ind. Eng. Chem., 1999, 5 , 198 —203 CrossRef CAS .
J. S. Chang , H. S. Roh , M. S. Park and S. E. Park , Propane dehydrogenation over a hydrogen permselective membrane reactor, Bull. Korean Chem. Soc., 2002, 23 , 674 —678 CrossRef CAS .
D. Ding , Y. Y. Zhang , W. Wu , D. C. Chen , M. L. Liu and T. He , A novel low-thermal-budget approach for the co-production of ethylene and hydrogen via the electrochemical non-oxidative deprotonation of ethane, Energy Environ. Sci., 2018, 11 , 1710 —1716 RSC .
X. Zhang , L. Ye , H. Li , F. Chen and K. Xie , Electrochemical Dehydrogenation of Ethane to Ethylene in a Solid Oxide Electrolyzer, ACS Catal., 2020, 10 , 3505 —3513 CrossRef CAS .
W. Wu , L. C. Wang , H. Q. Hu , W. J. Bian , J. Y. Gomez , C. J. Orme , H. P. Ding , Y. H. Dong , T. He , J. Li and D. Ding , Electrochemically Engineered, Highly Energy-Efficient Conversion of Ethane to Ethylene and Hydrogen below 550 degrees C in a Protonic Ceramic Electrochemical Cell, ACS Catal., 2021, 11 , 12194 —12202 CrossRef CAS .
Z. P. Wang , R. Shi and T. R. Zhang , Three-phase electrochemistry for green ethylene production, Curr. Opin. Electrochem., 2021, 30 Search PubMed .
E. Gobina , K. Hou and R. Hughes , Equilibrium-shift in alkane dehydrogenation using a high-temperature catalytic membrane reactor, Catal. Today, 1995, 25 , 365 —370 CrossRef CAS .
J. Szegner , K. L. Yeung and A. Varma , Effect of catalyst distribution in a membrane reactor: Experiments and model, AIChE J., 1997, 43 , 2059 —2072 CrossRef CAS .
Y. Yildirim , E. Gobina and R. Hughes , An experimental evaluation of high-temperature composite membrane systems for propane dehydrogenation, J. Membr. Sci., 1997, 135 , 107 —115 CrossRef CAS .
V. S. Bobrov , N. G. Digurov and V. V. Skudin , Propane dehydrogenation using catalytic membrane, J. Membr. Sci., 2005, 253 , 233 —242 CrossRef CAS .
In addition to H2 removal technology, greater conversion may be achieved by H2 oxidation with O2, which allows the Xeq limit to reach ∼100% for any temperature in Fig. 1; this is akin to oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which is desirable because of the quantitative Xeq possible at a wide-range of temperature and pressure conditions, but is plagued by non-selective pathways that cause over-oxidation to produce COx. See: (a) M. M. Bhasin , J. H. McCain , B. V. Vora , T. Imai and P. R. Pujado , Dehydrogenation and oxydehydrogenation of paraffins to olefins, Appl. Catal., A, 2001, 221 , 397 —419 CrossRef CAS . (b) S. Najari , S. Saeidi , P. Concepcion , D. D. Dionysiou , S. K. Bhargava , A. F. Lee and K. Wilson , Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane: catalytic and mechanistic aspects and future trends, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2021, 50 , 4564 —4605 RSC . (c) O. Czuprat , J. Caro , V. A. Kondratenko and E. V. Kondratenko , Dehydrogenation of propane with selective hydrogen combustion: A mechanistic study by transient analysis of products, Catal. Commun., 2010, 11 , 1211 —1214 CrossRef CAS . (d) O. Czuprat , S. Werth , J. Caro and T. Schiestel , Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane in a perovskite membrane reactor with multi-step oxygen insertion, AIChE J., 2010, 56 , 2390 —2396 CrossRef CAS . (e) L. T. Ye , X. Y. Duan and K. Xie , Electrochemical Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane to Ethylene in a Solid Oxide Electrolyzer, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2021, 60 , 21746 —21750 CrossRef CAS PubMed . (f) R. C. Schucker , G. Dimitrakopoulos , K. Derrickson , K. K. Kopec , F. Alahmadi , J. R. Johnson , L. Shao and A. F. Ghoniem , Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Ethane to Ethylene in an Oxygen Ion Transport Membrane Reactor – A Proposed Design for Process Intensification, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2019, 58 , 7989 —7997 CrossRef CAS .
Membrane reactors have also been studied for methane conversions. See: (a) S. H. Morejudo , R. Zanon , S. Escolastico , I. Yuste-Tirados , H. Malerod-Fjeld , P. K. Vestre , W. G. Coors , A. Martinez , T. Norby , J. M. Serra and C. Kjolseth , Direct conversion of methane to aromatics in a catalytic co-ionic membrane reactor, Science, 2016, 353 , 563 —566 CrossRef CAS PubMed . (b) Z. Liu , L. Li and E. Iglesia , Catalytic pyrolysis of methane on Mo/H-ZSM5 with continuous hydrogen removal by permeation through dense oxide films, Catal. Lett., 2002, 82 , 175 —180 CrossRef CAS .
For related studies on ethylbenzene dehydrogenation, see: (a) E. Gobina , K. Hou and R. Hughes , Mathematical-analysis of ethylbenzene dehydrogenation - comparison of microporous and dense membrane systems, J. Membr. Sci., 1995, 105 , 163 —176 CrossRef CAS . (b) E. Gobina , K. H. Hou and R. Hughes , A comparative evaluation of high-temperature membrane systems for catalytic processing, Chem. Eng. Commun., 1998, 166 , 157 —181 CrossRef CAS .
Y. F. Gao , L. Neal , D. Ding , W. Wu , C. Baroi , A. M. Gaffney and F. X. Li , Recent advances in intensified ethylene production-a review, ACS Catal., 2019, 9 , 8592 —8621 CrossRef CAS .
S. W. Choi , C. W. Jones , S. Nair , D. S. Sholl , J. S. Moore , Y. J. Liu , R. S. Dixit and J. G. Pendergast , Material properties and operating configurations of membrane reactors for propane dehydrogenation, AlChE J, 2015, 61 , 922 —935 CrossRef CAS .
E. V. Shelepova and A. A. Vedyagin , Intensification of the dehydrogenation process of different hydrocarbons in a catalytic membrane reactor, Chem. Eng. Process., 2020, 155 , 108072 CrossRef CAS .
L. C. Liu , M. Lopez-Haro , C. W. Lopes , C. G. Li , P. Concepcion , L. Simonelli , J. J. Calvino and A. Corma , Regioselective generation and reactivity control of subnanometric platinum clusters in zeolites for high-temperature catalysis, Nat. Mater., 2019, 18 , 866 —873 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
L. C. Liu , M. Lopez-Haro , C. W. Lopes , S. Rojas-Buzo , P. Concepcion , R. Manzorro , L. Simonelli , A. Sattler , P. Serna , J. J. Calvino and A. Corma , Structural modulation and direct measurement of subnanometric bimetallic PtSn clusters confined in zeolites, Nat. Catal., 2020, 3 , 628 —638 CrossRef CAS .
A. Sattler , M. Paccagnini , L. Liu , E. Gomez , H. Klutse , A. W. Burton and A. Corma , Assessment of metal-metal interactions and catalytic behavior in platinum-tin bimetallic subnanometric clusters by using reactive characterizations, J. Catal., 2021, 404 , 393 —399 CrossRef CAS .
L. C. Liu and A. Corma , Metal catalysts for heterogeneous catalysis: from single atoms to nanoclusters and nanoparticles, Chem. Rev., 2018, 118 , 4981 —5079 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
For related work on PtZn on MFI, see: (a) Y. Wang , Z.-P. Hu , X. Lv , L. Chen and Z.-Y. Yuan , Ultrasmall PtZn bimetallic nanoclusters encapsulated in silicalite-1 zeolite with superior performance for propane dehydrogenation, J. Catal., 2020, 385 , 61 —69 CrossRef CAS . (b) Q. Sun , N. Wang , Q. Fan , L. Zeng , A. Mayoral , S. Miao , R. Yang , Z. Jiang , W. Zhou , J. Zhang , T. Zhang , J. Xu , P. Zhang , J. Cheng , D.-C. Yang , R. Jia , L. Li , Q. Zhang , Y. Wang , O. Terasaki and J. Yu , Subnanometer bimetallic Pt-Zn clusters in zeolites for propane dehydrogenation, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2020, 59 , 19450 —19459 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
D. W. Flaherty and E. Iglesia , Transition-state enthalpy and entropy effects on reactivity and selectivity in hydrogenolysis of n-alkanes, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2013, 135 , 18586 —18599 CrossRef CAS PubMed .
Footnote
† Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See https://doi.org/10.1039/d2ee00568a
This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2022