element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
Help
Search
My account
View PDF
Download full issue
Applied Surface Science
Volume 368
, 15 April 2016, Pages 233-240
Effects of Al2O3 phase and Cl component on dehydrogenation of propane
Author links open overlay panel
Jie Liu
,
Changcheng Liu
,
Aizeng Ma
,
Junfeng Rong
,
Zhijian Da
,
Aiguo Zheng
,
Ling Qin
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2016.01.282
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
Comparative study of Al2O3 phase on dehydrogenation of propane was implemented.
•
Pore structures and acid properties of Pt-Al2O3 are correlated to the activities.
•
Pt-θ-Al2O3 with abundant Cl content shows the highest activity and stability.
Abstract
The effects of two Al2O3 phases, γ- and θ-Al2O3, and Cl component on the performances of Pt-Al2O3 catalysts in the dehydrogenation of propane were investigated in this work. The catalysts were systematically characterized by various techniques, such as scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM), temperature-programmed desorption with ammonia as probe molecules (NH3-TPD) and temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO). The characterizations and catalytic results show that: (i) the pore structures and acid properties of the two Al2O3 phases can change the quantity, location and property of the carbon deposition, (ii) the existence of Cl plays a significant role on the agglomeration of Pt particles and carbon deposition, which further influence the catalytic performances of Pt-Al2O3 catalysts with different support phases for propane dehydrogenation.
Graphical abstract
Download: Download high-res image (199KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Previous article in issue
Next article in issue
Keywords
Al2O3PhaseCl componentPropane dehydrogenationCarbon deposition
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.