<quotes>
[1] "Over the past decade the demand for propene has increased significantly, outgrowing the quantity that can be supplied by the conventional sources, ethane steam crackers and FCCs (fluidized catalytic crackers) (Tullo, 2003). Consequently, the dehydrogenation of propane is becoming more attractive."
[2] "One of the propane dehydrogenation processes available is the Catofin process (ABB Lummus) (Bhasin et al., 2001)."
[3] "Currently the cycle times for the Catofin process are fixed and based on past experience. During the lifetime of the catalyst (typically 2 years), the reaction temperature is gradually increased to maintain the desired conversion level."
[4] "Having knowledge on coke quantities on the catalyst can help to adjust cycle times for a process like Catofin. Cycle times can be extended if one observes that a larger amount of coke will utilize the catalyst longer in a more active state, or cycle times can be reduced if the amount of coke accumulating on the catalyst will be resulting in too much heat liberated during the regeneration phase."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Recent economic factors, particularly the surge in shale gas production, have led to an increased demand for propene, outpacing the supply from traditional sources like ethane steam crackers and fluidized catalytic crackers (FCCs). This has made the dehydrogenation of propane more attractive. The Catofin process, developed by ABB Lummus, is one of the available propane dehydrogenation methods. Currently, the cycle times for the Catofin process are set based on past experiences, with the reaction temperature gradually increased over the catalyst's lifetime of about 2 years to maintain the desired conversion level. Knowledge of coke formation on the catalyst can assist in adjusting the cycle times. Longer cycle times can be implemented if more coke is observed, as it may prolong the catalyst's active state. Conversely, cycle times can be shortened if the accumulation of coke leads to excessive heat release during the regeneration phase.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
近年来，尤其是页岩气产量的激增导致了丙烯需求的显著增加，超过了传统来源如乙烷蒸汽裂解和流化床催化裂解（FCC）的供应能力。这使得丙烷脱氢更具吸引力。ABB Lummus开发的Catofin过程是可用的丙烷脱氢方法之一。目前，Catofin过程的循环时间基于过去的经验设定，催化剂的使用寿命约为2年，在此期间，通过逐渐提高反应温度来维持所需的转化水平。了解催化剂上的焦炭形成情况有助于调整Catofin过程的循环时间。如果观察到更多的焦炭可以更长时间地利用催化剂的活性状态，则可以延长循环时间。相反，如果积累的焦炭导致再生阶段释放过多热量，可以缩短循环时间。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
