I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
Chemical ReviewsVol 114/Issue 14Article Cite Share Jump to Expand REVIEWMay 21, 2014 New Stories of Zeolite Structures: Their Descriptions, Determinations, Predictions, and Evaluations Yi LiJihong Yu* View Author Information View Author Information Open PDF This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  2014 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Chemical Structure Crystal Structure Physical And Chemical Processes Structure Determination Zeolites 1 Introduction Zeolites are an important class of inorganic crystalline materials that have been widely used in the fields of petroleum refining, petrochemical industry, and fine chemical industry, as catalysts, adsorbents, and ion-exchangers. (1-30) The frameworks of zeolites possess orderly distributed micropores with diameters typically less than 2 nm. In comparison with those of other microporous materials, a zeolite framework is built exclusively from TO4 tetrahedra (T denotes tetrahedrally coordinated Si, Al, or P, etc.). Each TO4 tetrahedron is connected with four neighbors by sharing their vertex O atoms, forming the three-dimensional four-connected zeolite framework. Although all zeolites are constructed from TO4 tetrahedra, the different ways in which they can be connected lead to the rich variety of zeolite structures.
Because of the wide applications of zeolites, the pursuit of novel zeolites with desired framework structures has never stopped. By the time the sixth edition of Atlas of Zeolite Framework Types was published in 2007, (31) the Structure Commission of the International Zeolite Association (IZA-SC) had approved 176 distinct zeolite framework types, each of which was assigned a three-letter code. These framework types are often called the IZA structures. Thanks to the development of synthetic strategies, the number of IZA structures has reached 218 to date (Figure 1). (32) Besides, there are many zeolite frameworks that have not been approved by IZA-SC yet. Many of these newly discovered zeolites possess interesting structural features, such as extra-large pores, low framework density, extremely complex framework topology, and intrinsically chiral frameworks, etc. Some of these structural features have never been observed before, such as 15-, 16-, 28-, and 30-ring pore-openings.
Figure 1 Figure 1. Number of zeolite framework types approved by IZA-SC in past years.
Besides the development of synthetic strategies, the progress in structure determination techniques is another important factor that has led to the rapid growth in the number of zeolite framework types during the past few years. In particular, new structure determination methods for powder X-ray diffraction, for electron microscopy, and for the combination of the two have led to the structure solution of many complex zeolite structures, such as those consisting of a large number of distinct T atoms or complicated stacking disorders. Meanwhile, with the aid of modern computer hardware and software, computer modeling is becoming more important in zeolite structure determination and prediction. Millions of hypothetical zeolite structures have been predicted through computer modeling. Structure databases, which have been built for both existing and hypothetical zeolite structures, serve not only as a complement to conventional structure determination methods but also as a pool providing promising synthetic candidates. The increase in both IZA structures and hypothetical ones has stimulated many new methods for the description and evaluation of zeolite structures, providing new insights into the feasibility of zeolite frameworks.
In this Review, we will focus our attention on the most striking discoveries about zeolite structures since the publication of the sixth edition of Atlas of Zeolite Framework Types in 2007. After this brief introduction in section 1, section 2 outlines the recent progress in zeolite framework descriptions; section 3 presents several newly discovered zeolite frameworks with interesting structural features; in section 4, the recent progress in zeolite structure determination is described; new methods and databases for zeolite structure prediction are reviewed in section 5; section 6 addresses the feasibility of zeolite structures; and the last section includes the concluding remarks and brief outlooks. In this Review, we only focus on highly crystalline zeolitic frameworks that are built exclusively from TO4 tetrahedra. The physical and chemical properties of zeolites, as well as the hostguest interactions between zeolite frameworks and extra-framework species, are beyond the topics of this Review. 2 Structure Description Zeolites have very complex three-dimensionally extended framework structures. The TO4 tetrahedra are connected in different ways to form complex framework topologies, and the pores inside the frameworks can be of any shape. Describing the structure of a zeolite framework has always been a challenging task. Toward this end, many structural descriptors have been devised during the past decades. Meanwhile, the efficient calculation of complex structural features is also an important challenge in this field. Since the publication of the sixth edition of Atlas of Zeolite Framework Types in 2007, (31) many efforts have been made to develop new structure descriptors and new methods for the calculation of complex porous structures, which will be the main topic of this section.
2.1 Basic Definitions
Before introducing the most recent progress, we will briefly review some basic definitions that are important for zeolite structure descriptions. Some of these definitions are related only to the topological features of a zeolite framework, such as coordination sequences and vertex symbols. Other definitions are more related to the geometric features of a zeolite, such as the framework density and accessible pores. Isotypic materials with different chemical compositions may have the same topological features but different geometrical features. More detailed information about these basic definitions can be found in the Database of Zeolite Structures (32) and IUPAC Recommendations 2001. (33)
2.1.1 Framework Type Code
The framework type code is a three-capital-letter code assigned by IZA-SC to each distinct zeolite framework type. A type code beginning with a  indicates an interrupted framework, whereas the one beginning with a * indicates an experimentally observed zeolite that possesses intergrowth or structural disorders. To avoid being confused with other three-letter abbreviations, all of the framework type codes are written in bold throughout this Review.
2.1.2 The Idealized Framework
To get a standard geometric model for each framework type, IZA-SC has optimized each IZA structure assuming a silica polymorph with the highest topologically allowed symmetry. (34) This optimized structure is the idealized framework for the corresponding zeolite framework type.
2.1.3 Framework Density (FD)
The framework density is defined as the number of T atoms per 1000 Å3. Isotypic materials with different chemical compositions may have different FDs.
2.1.4 Coordination Sequences and Vertex Symbols
Each T atom in a zeolite framework corresponds to a coordination sequence and a vertex symbol. The coordination sequence consists of a sequence of integers, where the nth integer represents the number of T atoms involved in the nth neighboring shell surrounding the original T atom. The vertex symbol indicates the size of the smallest ring associated with each of the six angles of a T atom. Zeolite frameworks with different coordination sequences or vertex symbols are topologically different. Detailed information about these two definitions can be found in the Database of Zeolite Structures. (32)
2.1.5 Ring
There are many conflicting definitions of ring between the mathematics and chemistry communities. For zeolites, a ring is usually referred to as a cycle of T and O atoms that is not the sum of any number of shorter cycles. A ring composed of n T and n O atoms is called an n-ring.
2.1.6 Cage and Cavity
A cage is a polyhedral pore whose faces are all too narrow to be penetrated by guest species larger than a water molecule, whereas a cavity is the pore with at least one face large enough to be penetrated. In practice, a cage has no face larger than 6-ring, whereas a cavity has at least one. A list of the most frequently observed cages and cavities can be found in refs 2 and 35.
2.1.7 Channel
The channel in a zeolite framework is a pore infinitely extended in one dimension and is large enough for guest species to diffuse along its length. Similar to the definition of cavity, the opening of a channel has to be larger than 6-ring. Channels may intersect to form two- or three-dimensional channel systems.
2.1.8 Effective Channel Width
The effective width of a channel can be defined as the free diameter of the smallest aperture along the direction of a channel. The free diameter is calculated as the O···O distance with the diameter of O subtracted. For instance, the effective width of the 12-ring channel in faujasite is 7.4 Å, assuming the diameter of O to be 2.7 Å.
2.1.9 Building Unit
A zeolite framework can be deconstructed in different ways into different types of building units. Table 1 lists several types of building units that have been used often. Because some of these building units lack strict definition, framework deconstruction can be quite arbitrary. In practice, people tend to focus on the simplest or the most representative building units that reflect the topological characteristic of the given zeolite framework. Among these building units, the secondary building unit (SBU) and the composite building unit (CBU) are the most frequently encountered. More detailed information about these building units and the complete lists of SBUs and CBUs can be found in refs 3133, 35, 36.
Table 1. Definitions of Various Building Units name definition basic building unit or primary building unit (BBU) BBU is the TO4 tetrahedron in a zeolite framework; other building units are all constructed from BBUs secondary building unit (SBU) an SBU is constructed from a small number of BBUs; in general, a zeolite framework is built of one type of SBU only; neighboring SBUs do not share T atoms periodic building unit (PerBU) PerBUs are zero-, one-, or two-dimensional building units constructed from a finite or infinite number of BBUs; the definition of PerBU has been developed to systematically describe disordered zeolite frameworks, which are structurally related and can be considered as a family; each member of the family can be generated by applying simple symmetry operations, such as translations and/or rotations, to the corresponding PerBU; therefore, PerBU is not an abstract object as other building units; neighboring PerBUs do not share T atoms composite building unit (CBU) CBU is the combination of a finite or infinite number of BBUs, which usually reflects the characteristic of a zeolite framework; CBUs may share T atoms with their neighbors, and they may not be able to build the entire zeolite framework; the most frequently encountered CBUs are rings, chains, and polyhedral cages/cavities; IZA-SC has assigned a three-lowercase-letter designation to each of these CBU; to avoid being confused with other three-letter codes, the designations of all of the CBUs are written in italic throughout this Review constituting composite building unit (cCBU) cCBUs are the smallest CBUs that can build the entire zeolite framework; cCBUs are defined such that the number of different cCBUs in a zeolite framework is the lowest (usually one or two); neighboring cCBUs may share T atoms fundamental building unit (FBU) FBUs are cCBUs that do not share T atoms; selection of FBUs must follow a series of hierarchical rules
2.1.10 The Largest Included Sphere and the Largest Free Sphere
The largest included sphere is the largest sphere that can be fitted inside a zeolite framework without distorting or overlapping with any framework atom. The largest free sphere is the largest sphere that can move freely through the periodic zeolite framework. The diameters of these two types of spheres are often denoted by Di and Df, respectively. The ratio of Df/Di may indicate the smoothness of channel walls within a zeolite framework. (37)
2.1.11 Available, Occupiable, and Accessible Pores
The available pore in a zeolite framework is the void space that consists of no framework atom. The occupiable pore is the void space that can be reached by the center of a specific guest molecule. If the occupiable pore has an opening wide enough for the guest molecule to visit from outside, it is also an accessible pore. Apparently the available pore is only related to the nature of the host framework, whereas the occupiable and the accessible pores are related to both the host framework and the guest molecule. In practice, a rigid sphere with a diameter of 2.8 Å is often used as the default guest molecule, which corresponds to the kinetic size of a water molecule. (38)
2.2 New Descriptors
2.2.1 Hard Sphere Packing
In 2009, Treacy and Foster devised a procedure to pack idealized hard spheres inside a zeolite framework. (38) By simulating the close packing of idealized spheres at various sizes, one can get useful information regarding the pore geometry of a zeolite framework.
In this approach, hard spheres are packed under two basic artificial interactions: attraction and repulsion. Spheres are attracted to each other when they are close, which ensures the close packing of spheres; spheres also repel each other strongly if they overlap, ensuring the hardness of the spheres. At the beginning of the packing procedure, a small number of hexagonal close packed spheres are placed into the zeolite framework without overlapping any framework atom. An excess of spheres are supplied outside the unit cell. To force the external spheres to move into the unit cell, an additional attractive potential toward the center of the unit cell is applied. The whole system of spheres is optimized by simulated annealing to minimize the total packing cost. Once the optimization procedure is finished, the number of spheres inside the unit cell is counted as the maximal number of spheres that can be packed in a zeolite framework.
Treacy and Foster calculated the sphere packing in 176 idealized IZA frameworks. Part of their results is listed in Table 2, where NH2O, NHe, NNe, NAr, NKr, and NXe are the maximal numbers of spheres that can be packed, per 1000 Å3, with diameters of 2.80, 2.60, 2.75, 3.40, 3.60, and 3.96 Å, respectively (corresponding to the kinetic diameters of water, helium, neon, argon, krypton, and xenon). From this table, the difference in the porosity of different zeolite frameworks is already shown. However, because it ignores the true nonbonding repulsions as well as other experimental factors, the sphere packing approach cannot be used to predict the real adsorption isotherms.
Table 2. Maximal Numbers of Spheres That Can Be Packed per 1000 Å3 in Idealized Zeolite Frameworks (38) zeolite NH2O NHe NNe NAr NKr NXe
CAN 18.4 24.1 18.9 10.3 6.5 5.9
CHA 21.6 29.4 21.9 10.1 8.7 6.8
FAU 20.8 24.7 19.0 9.6 8.1 6.3
LTA 23.0 27.5 21.5 10.2 8.3 6.5
OFF 23.7 25.2 19.5 9.5 7.2 3.3
SOD 16.2 19.5 15.5 6.5 3.8 3.1
For every zeolite framework, if one calculates the sphere packing for all possible sphere diameters, a plot of the number of packed spheres as a function of sphere diameter (d) will be obtained. For instance, Figures 2 and 3 are such plots for zeolites LTL and MFI, respectively. The general trend for all zeolite frameworks is that the number of packed spheres decreases as the sphere diameter is increased. However, the ways that the packing decreases differ in different zeolites, reflecting their intrinsic porous features. For zeolite LTL, the decrease of packed spheres undergoes several distinct regimes (Figure 2). At low sphere diameter (d < 4.0 Å), the number of packed spheres is proportional to d3, indicating that the packing is essentially three-dimensional. With the increase of d, the number of packed spheres is proportional to d2 (4.0 < d < 6.0 Å) and d1 (6.4 < d < 8.8 Å), respectively. At high sphere diameter (8.8 < d < 10.0 Å), LTL cannot hold multiple spheres in the same cavity any more. Thus, the numbers of packed spheres at this regime can only be constants like 1.0, 0.67, and 0.5, etc. At d > 10.0 Å, no spheres can be packed inside because it exceeds the diameter of the largest included sphere. As compared to that in LTL, the sphere packing in zeolite MFI is simpler, because the channel walls in MFI are smoother (Figure 3). Therefore, analyzing the sphere packing as a function of sphere diameter has provided a new way to illustrate the pore geometry in a zeolite framework.Figure 2 Figure 2. Log-linear plot showing the number of packed spheres in one unit cell of zeolite LTL as a function of sphere diameter. Reprinted with permission from ref 38. Copyright 2009 Elsevier.Figure 3 Figure 3. Log-linear plot showing the number of packed spheres in one unit cell of zeolite MFI as a function of sphere diameter. Reprinted with permission from ref 38. Copyright 2009 Elsevier.
2.2.2 Ring Index
In 2009, Sastre and Corma suggested using a new descriptor, the ring index, to describe the rings present in a zeolite structure. (39) The ring index of an atom is defined as the list showing the sizes and numbers of rings that pass through that atom. According to its definition, ring index is valid for both T and O atoms. For instance, in zeolite FAU, there are one unique T and four unique O atoms (Figure 4). The ring index of the only T atom is 43·62·12, indicating that it is involved in three 4-rings, two 6-rings, and one 12-ring. Each O site in FAU is associated with three rings. O1 is associated with two 4-rings and one 12-ring (42·12), O2 with two 4-rings and one 6-ring (42·6), O3 with one 4-ring and two 6-rings (4·62), and O4 with one 4-ring, one 6-ring, and one 12-ring (4·6·12).
Figure 4 Figure 4. Perspective views of ring indices associated with the unique atoms in zeolite FAU. Top left, T1 showing rings 43·62·12; top-right, O1 showing 42·12 rings; bottom-left, O2 showing 42·6 rings; bottom-middle, O3 showing 4·62 rings; bottom-right, O4 showing 4·6·12 rings. Reprinted with permission from ref 39. Copyright 2009 American Chemical Society.
By showing the different environments around O atoms, ring indices can be used to locate catalytically active Brnsted sites in a zeolite framework. For instance, zeolite IWW contains a porous system made by interconnecting 8-, 10-, and 12-ring channels. IWW consists of 34 different O sites, the ring indices of which are shown in Table 3. O sites located in 12-ring channels amount to 12%, and those located in 10-ring channels are relatively rare, implying that molecules diffusing preferentially through 12-ring channels will undergo major reactivity than those diffusing through 10-ring channels.
Besides for analyzing the O sites in zeolite frameworks, ring indices may have other applications. Using ring indices, the numbers of rings of various sizes and the average ring size in a zeolite framework can be calculated, which cannot be deduced from vertex symbols in general cases. (39) Table 3. Ring Indices of O Sites in Zeolite IWW (39) atom ring index atom ring index atom ring index
O1 42·6·122 O13 4·62·126 O25 5·84·10
O2 42·10·122 O14 4·52 O26 53·82
O3 42·5 O15 53·6·123 O27 4·5·62·102·12
O4 5·6·10·124 O16 4·64 O28 4·5·102·127
O5 42·104·123 O17 52·63·123 O29 4·52
O6 42·62 O18 4·62·82 O30 4·5·82
O7 63·104·125 O19 52·63·8 O31 4·52
O8 42·102·12 O20 53·6·8 O32 4·52
O9 42·6·8 O21 52·82·10 O33 4·62·128
O10 63·8·102·12 O22 52·62·10·12 O34 4·52
O11 42·10 O23 54
O12 5·6·8·10 O24 52·10·127
2.2.3 Natural Building Unit
As we have already shown, a zeolite framework can be decomposed in many ways, in which the building units can be SBUs, CBUs, and PerBUs, etc. However, choosing the building units for a zeolite framework, as well as the way they assemble, is quite arbitrary. Therefore, we need a general procedure to remove the ambiguity in zeolite framework decomposition. The concept of natural tiling can be one of the solutions. According to the theory of tiling, a three-dimensional net can be decomposed into a number of face-sharing, edge-sharing, and vertex-sharing three-dimensional polyhedral tiles. The way all of the tiles assemble together is the tiling of the net. According to OKeeffes definition, (40) a tiling is natural when it obeys the following rules: (a) its symmetry coincides with the symmetry of the net; (b) the faces of the tiles are strong rings that are not the sum of smaller rings; (c) all strong rings that are not the tile faces intersect each other; and (d) if more than one tiling obey rules ac, the different tiles of all of the tilings are united to larger tiles to obtain a unique tiling. This algorithm can be used to construct the natural tiling for a net of any complexity, which has been implemented in computer programs such as TOPOS. (41) In 2010, Blatov and co-workers showed that a zeolite framework could be unambiguously decomposed in only one way following the concept of natural tiling. (42) In this approach, the zeolite framework corresponds to a three-dimensional net, and the tiles composing the natural tiling of the zeolite net are the natural building units (NBUs). Blatov and co-workers constructed the natural tilings for 194 IZA structures and found 308 topologically distinct NBUs. Each of these NBUs was assigned a unique name. Figure 5 shows the natural tiling of zeolite CLO. Although most of the IZA frameworks (80%) are built with no more than five types of NBUs, there exist some frameworks that consist of over 10 types of topologically different NBUs. The occurrence of the 308 distinct NBUs among the 194 IZA frameworks is quite different. Fourteen NBUs occur at least in 10 IZA frameworks (Figure 6), whereas 213 NBUs occur only once.
Figure 5 Figure 5. Natural tiling of zeolite CLO. Different NBUs are in different colors. Reprinted with permission from ref 42. Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society.
Figure 6 Figure 6. Most frequently encountered NBUs and their occurrence among 194 IZA structures. Reprinted with permission from ref 42. Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society.
Decomposing zeolite frameworks into NBUs has several important advantages over other decomposition methods. First, the choice of NBU is unambiguous, and the decomposition procedure can be done easily by computer programs. Second, all of the minimal cages and cavities are represented by NBUs, and all of the windows of the pores in zeolite frameworks are represented by the faces of NBUs. Third, the resemblance between different zeolite frameworks can be analyzed by comparing their NBUs and natural tilings. Because of these advantages, IZA-SC has employed the concept of natural tiling to describe zeolite frameworks in its official database since 2008. (32)
2.2.4 T-Ring Graph
In 2010, Haranczyk and co-workers developed a special abstract two-dimensional graph, that is, the T-ring graph, to depict important topological and geometrical features of zeolite frameworks. (43) A T-ring graph is composed of nodes and edges. Each node is a colored circle representing a specific building unit (such as an NBU) of a zeolite framework; the diameter of each node is proportional to the diameter of the largest included sphere (di) for the corresponding building unit. Figure 7 shows the nodes describing the NBUs of zeolite LTA. The colors in each node correspond to the sizes of the rings composing the building unit; the width of each color is proportional to the corresponding ring composition in the building unit.
Figure 7 Figure 7. Representations of the NBUs of zeolite LTA in a T-ring graph. (a) The three NBUs in LTA. (b) The T-ring nodes representing the NBUs of LTA; a color key denoting the sizes of rings is also shown. Reprinted with permission from ref 43. Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society.
Between the neighboring nodes in a T-ring graph, there are edges representing the pathways between neighboring building units (Figure 8). The edge is drawn as a black line with a width proportional to the diameter of the largest free sphere (df) that may diffuse along the corresponding pathway. A dashed edge indicates that the corresponding pathway is too narrow for guest species (usually water molecules) to diffuse. The length and shape of the edge are not important.
Figure 8 Figure 8. T-ring graph representing zeolite LTA. Cages A, B, and C correspond to the [412.68.86], [46.68], and [46] NBUs, respectively. Reprinted with permission from ref 43. Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society.
The T-ring graphs can be used for the quick analysis and categorization of the pores in zeolite frameworks. Figure 9 shows several representative T-ring graphs. All zeolites presented in Figure 9a have accessible pathways (shown as solid black lines) wide enough for guest species to diffuse. In addition, these accessible pathways are narrower than the largest cavities they connect. Therefore, they can be quickly categorized as cavity-type zeolites. In contrast, all three zeolites presented in Figure 9b are channel-type structures, in which the widths of the connecting pathways are about the same size as the largest cavities. Figure 9c shows the T-ring graphs for cage-type structures, which are inaccessible to guest species as indicated by the absence of solid edge. It is worth noting that each T-ring graph corresponds to a specific guest molecule. Therefore, one may produce several T-ring graphs for the same zeolite framework when different guest molecules are considered. By comparing the T-ring graphs corresponding to different probes, one can easily generate preliminary conclusions about the selectivity of mixtures of guest species corresponding to a specific zeolite framework.
Figure 9 Figure 9. Categorization of zeolites according to the T-ring representations. (a) The cavity-type structures, (b) the channel-type structures, (c) the inaccessible cage-type structures, and (d) the color key denoting the sizes of rings. Reprinted with permission from ref 43. Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society.
2.2.5 Packing Unit
In 2012, Blatov and co-workers proposed a new framework decomposition method for aluminophosphate zeolites. (44) In general, the framework of an aluminophosphate zeolite can be decomposed into packing units (PUs), which are separate essential rings or NBUs confined by essential rings. The choice of PUs follows two rules: (1) the PUs should not share T-atoms; and (2) the framework should be completely constructed from the chosen PUs. According to these rules, PUs are actually the bigger and more unambiguously defined SBUs. The positions of PUs, including the connectivity between them, can be described by a packing net, where every vertex coincides with a PU center and edges describe the connectivity between PUs (Figure 10). Blatov and co-workers investigated 61 aluminophosphate zeolite frameworks and found that 18 of them could be built from one type of PUs. Among the 308 types of NBUs (42) found in IZA structures, only 26 could serve as PUs. Figure 11 shows some of these NBUs. Among ring-like PUs, 4- and 6-rings are of special importance; they appear in the packing models of 41 (67.2%) and 32 (52.5%) aluminophosphate zeolite frameworks, respectively. In particular, 40 frameworks can be built entirely from 4- or 6-rings.
Figure 10 Figure 10. (a) The packing units of zeolite AST and (b) its packing net. Reprinted with permission from ref 44. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.
Figure 11 Figure 11. Most frequently encountered NBUs in the packing unit models of aluminophosphate zeolites. Reprinted with permission from ref 44. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.
The natural tiling approach and the packing unit model both utilize NBUs as the essential building units. These two framework decomposition methods are both useful for the comparison of different structures. On the other hand, these two methods have obvious differences. First, the NBUs in a natural tiling share T atoms, whereas the PUs in the packing unit model do not. Second, NBUs in a natural tiling cannot be essential rings, whereas PUs can be. Third, each zeolite framework unambiguously corresponds to a unique natural tiling, whereas a zeolite framework may correspond to several packing models. Recently, Blatov and co-workers extended this PU study to 201 IZA frameworks and found that the existence of a valid packing model might be an essential feature of feasible zeolite structures (see section 6.4).
2.2.6 Information-Based Topological Complexity
Although the term complex has been widely used in the description of zeolite structures, its strict definition has rarely been mentioned. In practice, the number of crystallographically distinct T atoms has often been used as a measure of the framework complexity. Because it neglects both the site symmetry of T atoms and the contribution of bridging O atoms, the number of distinct T atoms cannot precisely reflect the total degree of freedom of a zeolite structure.
In 2012, Krivovichev proposed a quantitative information-based approach to evaluate the topological complexity of zeolite frameworks. (46) Within this approach, the content in the reduced unit cell of a zeolite structure is considered as a message with atoms as symbols. The more information this message contains, the more complex this zeolite structure is. According to Shannons information theory, the entropy of information encoded in this message (i.e., the complexity of a zeolite structure), IG, can be calculated according to the following formula:(1) where k is the number of topologically distinct atoms (including both T and O atoms), mi is the multiplicity of the ith distinct atom in the reduced unit cell, and v is the total number of atoms in the reduced unit cell. According to this definition, it is easy to deduce that the minimal information content is zero when all of the atoms are equivalent and the maximal information content is log2 v if all of the atoms are nonequivalent.
For instance, the idealized frameworks of SOD and NPO both have 6 T and 12 O atoms in their reduced unit cells (v = 18). SOD has one topologically distinct T atom and one distinct O atom, the multiplicities of which are 6 and 12, respectively. Therefore, for SOD: NPO has one distinct T and two distinct O atoms, the multiplicities of which are all 6. Therefore, for NPO: By comparing the IG values for these two structures, one can directly draw a conclusion that NPO is more complex than SOD. Notice that the numbers of distinct T atoms and cell contents in these two structures are both the same. As compared to other empirical methods, inclusion of site symmetry information and contribution of O atoms leads to a more reliable evaluation of the complexity of zeolite frameworks.
In 2013, Krivovichev applied this method to 201 IZA frameworks. (47) According to his result, IMF, *SFV, *STO, SVR, and TUN have the highest IG values (>6), which agrees well with ones intuitive feeling because they all possess large numbers (>20) of distinct T atoms. Other complexity-measuring parameters, such as IG,total (the total information content) and IG,norm (the normalized information content), can also be derived from IG. (47) These quantitative parameters can be used not only for evaluating the complexity of zeolite structures, but also for investigating the evolution of zeolite structures during crystallization and transformation. (47)
2.2.7 Voronoi Hologram
In 2012, Haranczyk and co-workers devised a new geometric descriptor, the Voronoi hologram, to depict the accessible void space in a zeolite framework. (48) Before dipping into the Voronoi hologram, we should start with the definition of Voronoi decomposition. For a zeolite framework m, the Voronoi decomposition is to divide the space surrounding the framework atoms into polyhedral cells such that each face of the polyhedral cells is a plane equidistant from the neighboring two atoms. The Voronoi network w, built of the nodes and edges of these polyhedral cells, maps the void space in a zeolite framework (Figure 12). Notice that the Voronoi network is the dual of the Delaunay triangulation. (37) When a specific probe diameter (for instance, 3.25 Å for CH4 molecule) is defined, the guest-accessible regions in zeolite frameworks can be determined, which correspond to v, a periodic subgraph of w (Figure 12).
Figure 12 Figure 12. Top left: The idealized framework of FAU, m (atoms in blue), and its three-dimensional Voronoi network w (orange). Top right: Within w, the CH4-accessible Voronoi subgraph v is highlighted (purple). Bottom left: Only v is shown, illustrating the pore topology encoded as Voronoi nodes and edges. Bottom right: A visualization of the pore landscape corresponding to the CH4-accessible network, with the Si and O atoms in the structure in tan and red, respectively. Reprinted with permission from ref 48. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.
The Voronoi hologram is a three-dimensional histogram that encodes the frequency of occurrence of edges in v. Its three axes are l (the length of each edge), ra, and rb (the distances from the two Voronoi nodes connected by each edge to the surface of the nearest framework atom; ra  rb), respectively. The Voronoi hologram is further divided into many small cubic bins; each edge in v belongs to exactly one of the small bins in this three-dimensional hologram. The frequency of occurrence of edges in each bin is denoted by a distinct color. Figure 13 shows two examples of Voronoi holograms for zeolites FAU and TUN.
Figure 13 Figure 13. Left: The Voronoi hologram for FAU. Bins are assigned a color on the basis of their frequency of occurrence, ranging in this case from 64 (dark blue) to 256 (red). Right: The Voronoi hologram for TUN. The frequency of occurrence in this case ranges from 4 (dark blue) to 104 (red). Reprinted with permission from ref 48. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.
Notice that the Voronoi hologram is an abstraction or simplification of v. Information such as interconnectivity of edges and their positions is lost in the Voronoi hologram. However, with this simplified representation, the porous systems in two zeolites can be compared more easily. Haranczyk and co-workers have defined a series of similarity coefficients to compare the Voronoi holograms of two different zeolites, (48) one of which is defined as follows:(2) where a and b are the numbers of active bits in arrays A and B that represent two holograms, c is the number of active bits in common, and n is the length of the arrays. It has a range from 0 (maximal dissimilarity) to 1 (identity). With these similarity coefficients defined, the least similar zeolite frameworks can be efficiently selected as representative ones from a large set of structures. Haranczyk and co-workers employed a MaxMin maximum-dissimilarity selection method to select the least similar ones among the 148 IZA frameworks, which have pores accessible to a spherical probe in the size of a CH4 molecule. (48) By setting the MTUbin similarity threshold of 0.5, Haranczyk and co-workers obtained a total of 20 least similar structures (Figure 14). These selected structures can be considered as the representatives of all of the 148 CH4-accessible zeolites, because any of the remaining 128 structures should be similar to at least one of the 20 selected ones (MTUbin > 0.5). In addition to studying existing zeolites, Haranczyk and co-workers extended their study to 139397 CH4-accessible hypothetical zeolite structures and retrieved 174 least similar ones (MTUbin < 0.5). (49) Figure 14 Figure 14. First 20 IZA structures selected by the diversity selection method. Reprinted with permission from ref 48. Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society.Haranczyks approach has important significance. Because the quantity of zeolite structures, including the synthesized and hypothetical ones, is becoming larger, the computational cost for evaluating all of the structures is prohibitively high (see section 5). Efficient sampling in such a large data set is highly in demand, which ensures that valuable resources are spent on the most representative structures. On the other hand, the accessible pores are the most important structural feature for zeolites that may decide their final applications. Diversity-selection of zeolite structures on the basis of pore geometry enables the researchers to focus only on a much smaller quantity of high-performance zeolites.
2.2.8 Pore Size Distribution Histogram and Ray-Trace Histogram
The pore size distribution (PSD) histogram indicates the fraction of the void volume that corresponds to certain pore sizes in porous materials. Although the PSD histograms are widely applied to present the results of adsorption measurements, they have rarely been studied in a theoretical way. (-50, 51) In 2013, Haranczyk and co-workers developed an efficient computer algorithm to generate the ideal PSD histograms for zeolite frameworks. (52) According to this algorithm, a specified number of sample points are chosen randomly within a zeolite framework. The largest spherical pore containing each sample point then can be calculated through Voronoi decomposition. A PSD histogram can eventually be generated by counting the number of sample points related to a particular pore diameter. To mimic the real PSD histograms determined in adsorption experiments, the sample points can be assumed to have the radius equivalent to that of the probe molecule. Figure 15 shows the PSD histograms of zeolites AFT and SIV.
Figure 15 Figure 15. PSD histograms for (A) AFT and (B) SIV. Both histograms were generated with a 0.5 Å probe radius. Reprinted with permission from ref 52. Copyright 2013 Elsevier.
In 2013, Iglesia and co-workers developed another two-dimensional descriptor, the ray-trace histogram, to depict the landscapes of the pores in zeolite frameworks. Although the ray-trace histogram may look like the PSD histogram, they are calculated in completely different ways and have quite different meanings. (53) The ray-trace histogram assumes the accessible void space in a zeolite framework is filled with a large number of randomly placed straight rays. Each ray intersects the surface of the pores at two points, the distance between which is the length of each ray. Figure 16 shows the pores in zeolite MFI filled by rays of different lengths. A ray-trace histogram can then be generated by grouping the length and the number of rays in a series of bins. Figure 17 shows the ray-trace histogram of MFI, as well as the average ones calculated from 194 IZA structures and 139396 hypothetical ones, respectively. The number, locations, and shapes of peaks in a ray-trace histogram are specific to each zeolite structure. For instance, the two highest peaks in the ray-trace histogram of MFI are located at 0.40 and 0.82 nm, which correspond to the rays crossing the diameter of the main channels (Figure 16B) and those crossing the channel intersections (Figure 16C), respectively.
Figure 16 Figure 16. Illustration of randomly placed and oriented rays in MFI. Rays are displayed according to their lengths: (A) 00.3 nm, (B) 0.30.6 nm, (C) 0.60.9 nm, (D) larger than 1.2 nm, and (E) 010 nm. Reprinted with permission from ref 53. Copyright 2013 Elsevier.
Figure 17 Figure 17. Ray-trace histogram of MFI (blue; solid line), the average one for IZA zeolites (orange; dashed line), and the average one for hypothetical zeolites accessible to a spherical probe of 0.325 nm in diameter (green; dotted line). Reprinted with permission from ref 53. Copyright 2013 Elsevier.
As that in Voronoi holograms (see section 2.2.7), the information about the locations, shapes, and connectivity of zeolite pores is lost in PSD and ray-trace histograms due to dimensionality reduction. Nonetheless, because of the same reason, the complex porous structures in different zeolites can be directly compared via these two-dimensional histogram representations. For instance, Iglesia and co-workers defined a Euclidean distance, Sd,euc, to measure the similarity between two ray-trace histograms:where P1,i and P2,i are the probability densities of rays in bin i for histograms 1 and 2, and n is the number of bins in each histogram. Following this definition, Iglesia and co-workers calculated the similarities between MFI and all other individual IZA zeolites. The most and least similar zeolites to MFI are TER (Sd,euc = 0.129) and VSV (Sd,euc = 0.439), respectively. Using this similarity metric, candidate catalytic solids that are capable of stabilizing specific transition states can be easily selected. For instance, MOR is an important catalyst for the carbonylation of dimethyl ether to methyl acetate owing to its 8-ring side pockets. To find an alternate carbonylation catalyst, Iglesia and co-workers performed a similarity search for ray-trace histograms with features similar to those in MOR in the region between 0.12 and 0.46 nm, which correspond to the shape and size of the 8-ring side pockets in MOR. (53) As a result, they found that AFS, AFY, SFO, and EON had the 8-ring side pockets most similar to those in MOR. Considering the fact that AFS, AFY, and SFO were not available as aluminosilicates yet, Iglesia and co-workers predicted that EON should be a promising alternate carbonylation catalyst or an even better one than MOR, because the 8-ring side pockets in EON were connected with 12-ring channels, which might allow faster diffusion of guest species.
The PSD histogram and the ray-trace histogram are complementary to each other. (52) The PSD histogram is highly sensitive to small changes in pore diameter, whereas the ray-trace histogram is more sensitive to the subtle deviations in pore texture. These two-dimensional histograms enable us to assess a large number of zeolite structures in an automated and high-throughput manner without the necessity to visualize each one of them.
2.3 New Methods for the Calculation of Pores
2.3.1 The Grid-Based Approaches
In 2010, Sholl and co-workers introduced a grid-based approach to identify the diameters of the largest included sphere and the largest free sphere in a zeolite framework. (54) This approach begins by dividing the unit cell of a zeolite framework into equally spaced discrete grid points. At each grid point, the distance from the grid point to the nearest framework atom can be calculated and recorded. The radius of the largest included sphere is simply the largest distance recorded among all of the grid points. To further calculate the diameter of the largest free sphere, the connectivity of pores within the zeolite framework must be determined. To do this, Sholl and co-workers adopted an efficient multiple-labeling algorithm. (55) This algorithm begins by identifying all grid points at which a spherical probe of a given size could be located without overlapping any framework atom. If two neighboring grid points are both feasible locations for a probe, then the probe can move continuously between the two grid points. If a set of feasible grid points connects the opposite sides of the unit cell of a zeolite framework, it forms a spanning cluster in which a probe can move freely. The largest free sphere that is capable of traversing the unit cell of a zeolite corresponds to the smallest spanning cluster.
Sholl and co-workers calculated the diameters of the largest included sphere and the largest free sphere for 165 IZA frameworks (54) and >250000 hypothetical ones (56, 57) using the grid spacing of 0.1 Å. Most of their results were in good agreement with Foster and co-workers work based on the Delaunay triangulation. (37) Moreover, the grid-based approach has shown two major advantages over other approaches. The first one is its capability to detect the largest accessible porous regions. For instance, zeolite FER possesses cages that are large enough to hold a spherical probe with the diameter of 6.25 Å (Figure 18). However, these cages are inaccessible from the main channels along the [001] direction, because their face openings are too small. The grid-based approach automatically detects this situation. According to Sholl and co-workers results, the largest accessible cavity in FER should have the diameter of 5.54 Å, 0.7 Å smaller than the global largest included sphere. The second advantage of the grid-based approach is its capability to model complex systems. Haranczyk and Sethian showed that the movement of a nonspherical molecule along the zeolite channel could be calculated through a high-dimensional grid-based approach. (58, 59) To model a real traversing molecule, the molecular worm, which was the assembly of solid blocks connected by flexible links, was used to replace the hard spherical probe that was often used in other approaches.
On the other hand, the grid-based approaches have an obvious disadvantage. The precision of every grid-based approach is highly dependent on grid spacing. To reach high precision, it is necessary to use small grid spacing, which may lead to a large number of grid points to calculate. This can be computationally expensive for complex zeolite structures. In 2012, Haranczyk and co-workers showed that the efficiency of the grid-based approach could be highly improved by parallelizing the main calculation routines. (60) For complex zeolite structures such as LTN, the computation time speedup was over 23 times on a 24-core CPU, and a further speedup over 7 times was achieved by utilizing the Fermi GPU. (60) Figure 18 Figure 18. Graphical representation of the zeolite FER viewed along the [001] (left) and the [100] directions (right). The framework atoms are colored red (O) and beige (Si). The largest cage present in the structure is represented as a yellow sphere with a diameter of 6.250 Å. The green points represent the coordinates that are accessible to the largest free sphere. Reprinted with permission from ref 54. Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society.
2.3.2 ZEOMICS
ZEOMICS is a web tool developed by Floudas and co-workers for automatically characterizing the accessible cavities and channels in a given zeolite framework. (61) Important quantities such as pore size distribution, accessible volume, surface area, and the diameters of the largest included sphere and the largest free sphere can be easily calculated using this tool. Different from other approaches, ZEOMICS simplifies the cavities and channels in a zeolite framework as simple overlapping spheres and cylinders, respectively (Figure 19). ZEOMICS starts with identifying the candidate portals within a zeolite framework, which are regular ring-like openings that guest molecules can pass through. Next, ZEOMICS finds the largest void cylinder linking each pair of portals. A cylinder large enough for the passing of guest molecules indicates the presence of a channel. Spheres representing the cages and cavities are identified afterward through three-dimensional Delaunay triangulation. The junctions where a guest molecule can change its travel direction within a zeolite framework are located by intersecting the cylinders and spheres that have been found. This leads to the construction of a connectivity graph describing how channels and cavities connect to one another. The connectivity graph can be pruned to remove all channels and cages that are not accessible by guest molecules of a given size. The accessible porous volume and surface are calculated as those of the union of all cylinders and spheres within a unit cell using the pruned connectivity graph.
Figure 19 Figure 19. Pores in zeolite MFI represented by overlapping cylinders and spheres. Reproduced with permission from ref 61. Copyright 2011 PCCP Owner Societies.
Using ZEOMICS, Floudas and co-workers characterized the accessible pores in 194 IZA structures with respect to different guest molecules. (61) On the basis of these results, a continuous-time Markov chain model was developed to estimate the distribution of guest molecules within a zeolite framework. With the aid of ZEOMICS, Floudas and co-workers carried out studies in the prediction of shape-selective separations (62) and cost-effective CO2 capture (63) in existing zeolites. Besides IZA structures, ZEOMICS also works well in principle for other microporous materials, including hypothetical zeolites and MOFs.
2.3.3 Zeo++
Zeo++ is an open-source software package developed by Haranczyk and co-workers for the analysis of the void space inside crystalline porous materials. (64) Zeo++ is based on Voronoi decomposition, capable of calculating many geometric parameters describing the pores in zeolites.
First, Zeo++ can be used to calculate various pore diameters in zeolite frameworks, such as the diameters of largest included sphere, the largest free sphere, and the largest accessible included sphere. As shown in section 2.2.7, the void space in a zeolite framework can be represented by a Voronoi network. The distance from each Voronoi node to each of its neighboring framework atom is calculated. The diameter of the largest included sphere is simply the largest distance obtained during this procedure. To calculate the largest free sphere that can travel between two Voronoi nodes, the path in the Voronoi network that leads through the nodes and edges with the largest distances to framework atoms needs to be found. This can be realized through the lowest-cost path algorithm. (65) Second, Zeo++ is capable of calculating the accessible surface area and the accessible volume inside a zeolite framework. To determine the accessibility of the void space for a given guest molecule, each Voronoi node has to be classified as accessible or inaccessible. An accessible node in a Voronoi network is connected, directly or indirectly, to its periodic image in another unit cell. Furthermore, a node connected to an accessible channel or cavity must also be part of the channel or cavity. Once the accessibility is determined, the accessible surface area and the accessible volume can be calculated through the Monte Carlo sampling approach. Meanwhile, the dimensionality of the channel system can also be determined by recording whether a Voronoi node is connected to its copy in more than one direction.
Third, Zeo++ can be used to generate multidimensional data to depict the pore landscapes of zeolite frameworks. For instance, the Voronoi holograms shown in section 2.2.7 were all generated using Zeo++. Moreover, the PSD histogram and the ray-tracing histogram (see section 2.2.8) can also be generated by Zeo++.
As compared to grid-based approaches (see section 2.3.1), Zeo++ requires much less computation resources and therefore runs much faster. However, Zeo++ assumes that the traversing guest molecules are all hard spheres, which may not be accurate when nonspherical or flexible guest molecules are considered. Therefore, Zeo++ is better suited for high-throughput early stage analysis of a large set of zeolitic materials.
2.4 Future Development
Describing a zeolite structure is not simply showing how it looks. A good structure descriptor should be able to be used for quantitative estimation of the physical and chemical properties of a zeolite framework. For instance, the accessible NBUs may be associated to the gas-separation ability of a zeolite framework; (66) the Gaussian and mean curvatures of the zeolite pores are correlated to the adsorption sites and heats. (67) On the other hand, rational synthesis of a specific zeolite structure requires clear understanding of the relationship between zeolite structures and zeolite syntheses. (68-73) Recently, various computer data mining techniques have been used to partly solve this problem. (74-88) In these studies, different zeolite structures have been simply represented by framework type codes, featured rings, or combinations of simple crystallographic parameters. Because of these simplifications, the instructive information obtained in these studies was only valid for a small number of specific structures. In general, the ideal descriptor for zeolite structures should have the following features: (1) it should be easy to calculate and to interpret; (2) it should carry the key topological and geometric information for each specific zeolite structure; (3) the similarity between different zeolite structures can be quantitatively measured using this descriptor; and (4) the structural feature described by this descriptor should have one-to-one correspondence to each specific structure. Descriptors with all of these features can be used both for quantitative property estimation and for analyzing the complex relationship between structures and syntheses. However, devising such descriptors is extremely difficult; it will be a long-term target in the studies of zeolite structures and deserves more efforts toward this end.
It is worth noting that most structure description methods mentioned in this Review assume the zeolite frameworks to be rigid and static. For instance, the dimension of a zeolite ring is usually calculated by measuring the distances between the nearest and the farthest oxygen-pairs in that ring. Such calculations assume all of the framework atoms stay static at their average or ideal positions determined from X-ray data. In fact, zeolite frameworks are flexible; the framework atoms oscillate around their average positions all the time, especially at a high temperature. This dynamic effect may significantly change the geometrical features of zeolites, as well as their physical and chemical properties. For instance, theoretical calculations and experimental measurement have shown that the temperature-dependent effective pore sizes of zeolites are usually larger than the nominal pore sizes calculated using the static models. (89-97) Because of this dynamic effect, zeolites are often able to adsorb and/or produce guest molecules with kinetic diameters larger than their static pore sizes. Besides temperature, the entrance and diffusion of guest species may also change the geometrical features of zeolite frameworks through hostguest nonbonding interactions. (94-96, 98-104) Although they are so important for the evaluation of zeolite structures, the framework flexibility and dynamics have been neglected in nearly all of the current structure description methods. This is mainly because the calculation of these effects usually requires ab initio or classical molecular dynamics simulations over enough long time, which can be quite computationally expensive. New descriptors and new methods for the quick calculation of framework dynamics are both highly desired in the future. 3 New Structures Although zeolitic materials were already known as early as the 18th century, it is in the recent three decades that the large majority of zeolite structures were discovered. One of the most important reasons for this rapid progress is the further understanding of zeolite formation mechanisms as well as the development of synthetic strateties. (12, 23, 71-73, 105-116) For instance, Corma and co-workers synthesized a series of new zeolite structures by using designed organic structure-directing agents (OSDAs), such as novel quaternary ammonium cations, proton sponges, phosphonium cations, and superbasic phosphazenes, etc.; (73) Lewis and co-workers developed a charge density mismatch (CDM) strategy, through which a series of new zeolitic materials have been prepared. (117-121) Because of these recently developed synthetic strategies, the number of zeolite framework types has been growing rapidly in the past few years. Since the publication of the sixth edition of Atlas of Zeolite Framework Types in 2007, (31) about 50 new zeolite framework types have been reported. Many of these new zeolite frameworks possess previously unseen or record-breaking structural features, leading to new understanding of the intrinsic nature of zeolite structures.
3.1 Structures with Unprecedented Pore-Openings
The pore-openings in zeolite frameworks are one of the most important factors that affect the physical and chemical properties of zeolitic materials. By 2007, pore-openings of many different sizes had been discovered, including 7-, 8-, 9-, 10-, 11-, 12-, 14-, 18-, and 20-rings. Different sizes of pore-openings have different shape-selective applications. Therefore, zeolite structures with unprecedented pore-openings have always been highly desired. Extra-large pore-openings, especially those larger than 14-rings, are of special interest, because they allow the entrance of large guest molecules that are inaccessible to regular zeolite structures. By 2007, there were only three zeolite structures possessing pore-openings larger than 14-ring: ETR (18-ring), VFI (18-ring), and CLO (20-ring). To date, many new zeolite structures with unprecedented pore-openings have been synthesized. Fascinatingly, some of these structures possess pore-openings in the range of mesopores.
3.1.1 JU-64 (JSR)
Gallogermanate zeolite JU-64 ((Ni(C3H10N2)3)36Ni4.7[Ga81.4Ge206.6O576]) was solvothermally synthesized by using [Ni(C3H10N2)3]2+ cations as the structure-directing agent. (122) JU-64 has a trigonal unit cell (R3; a = 30.012 Å, c = 37.301 Å). The framework of JU-64 can be described as the combination of three types of CBUs, including 6-rings, lov units, and d6r cages. The 6-rings and d6r cages are connected with each other alternately via the lov units, forming a layered structure (Figure 20a). Linking of these layers via lov units results in the three-dimensional structure of JU-64 (Figure 20b).
Figure 20 Figure 20. (a) The single layer of 6-rings and d6r cages connected via lov (spiro-5) units, and (b) the three-dimensional framework of JU-64. Yellow sticks show the three-dimensional interconnecting 11-ring channel system. Reprinted with permission from ref 122. Copyright 2013 Wiley-VCH.
The framework of JU-64 features a three-dimensional intersecting 11-ring channel system. The 11-ring channels running along three orthogonal directions have the free diameters of ca. 5.2 × 7.0 Å2. Such a highly porous system leads to a framework density of 9.9 T/1000 Å3, which is the lowest among all known oxide zeolites to date. [Ni(C3H10N2)3]2+ cations reside in the 11-ring channels; they could not be removed by calcination because of their strong electrostatic interactions with the host framework. JU-64 is the first four-connected zeolitic structure possessing three-dimensionally intersecting 11-ring channels. The other zeolite possessing 11-ring channels is NU-86, where 11-ring channels intersect with 10- and 12-ring channels. (123, 124) The idealized framework topology of JU-64, named JSR by IZA-SC, has the cubic symmetry of Pa3.
3.1.2 ITQ-40 (IRY)
Germanosilicate zeolite ITQ-40 ([Ge32.4Si43.6O150(OH)4]) could be prepared by using dimethyldiphenylphosphonium (Me2Ph2POH) or diethyldiphenylphosphonium (Et2Ph2POH) as the structure-directing agent. (125) ITQ-40 has a hexagonal unit cell (P63/mmc; a = 16.469 Å, c = 32.192 Å). The basic building unit of ITQ-40 is the [64·53·43·3] cage, in which one of the T atoms is only three-connected to its neighbors. The [64·53·43·3] cages connect to one another horizontally via d4r cages and vertically via d3r cages (Figure 21). ITQ-40 is the first zeolite framework possessing d3r cages. The TOT angles in d3r cages are all smaller than 130. Similar to those in d4r cages, the TOT angles in d3r cages can be relaxed by germanium atoms, which have larger ionic radii than silicon, allowing for more acute TOT angles.
The framework of ITQ-40 features a very large three-dimensional channel system (Figure 21). It possesses near circular 15-ring channels running along the [001] direction (9.9 Å in diameter), which further connect to a two-dimensional channel system formed by 16-ring channels running along the 100 directions (9.4 × 10.4 Å2). ITQ-40 is the first zeolite structure possessing 15-ring channels and also the first possessing 16-ring channels. The interconnecting extra-large porous system in ITQ-40 leads to a framework density of 10.1 T/1000 Å3, which is one of the lowest among all known zeolite structures. 75% of the organic structure-directing agent residing in ITQ-40 could be removed without structural degradation by in situ calcination at 450 C. The idealized framework topology of ITQ-40 was named ITV by IZA-SC recently.
Figure 21 Figure 21. Frameworks of ITQ-40 showing (a) the 16-ring pores and (b) the 15-ring pores. Oxygen atoms are omitted for clarity.
3.1.3 ITQ-51 (IFO)
Silicoaluminophosphate zeolite ITQ-51 ([Si2.6Al14.7P14.7O64]) was synthesized by using 1,8-bis(dimethylamino)naphthalene as the structure-directing agent. (126) ITQ-51 has a monoclinic unit cell (P21/n; a = 23.345 Å, b = 16.513 Å, c = 4.9814 Å, β = 92.620). The framework of ITQ-50 is built from parallel lau chains and helical 4-ring chains, which connect to one another by sharing the common T atoms.
ITQ-51 features one-dimensional 16-ring channels along the [001] direction with free diameters of 9.9 × 7.7 Å2 (Figure 22). The framework density of ITQ-51 is 16.7 T/1000 Å3. ITQ-51 is the first aluminophosphate-based zeolite possessing 16-ring channels. More importantly, ITQ-51 is stable after the organic structure-directing agent is removed by calcination in air at 550 C, being one of the very few examples of hydrothermally stable molecular sieves containing extra-large pores. The idealized framework topology of ITQ-51 (framework IFO with symmetry Pmmn) was theoretically predicted by Deem and co-workers before ITQ-51 was synthesized. (57) Figure 22 Figure 22. 16-ring channels in ITQ-51. Oxygen atoms are omitted for clarity.
3.1.4 ITQ-44 (IRR)
Germanosilicate zeolite ITQ-44 ([Ge17.7Si34.3O104]) was synthesized by using (2-(R),6-(S))-2,6-dimethylspiro[isoindole-2,1-piperidin-1-ium] as the structure-directing agent. (127) ITQ-44 has a hexagonal unit cell (P6/mmm; a = 19.536 Å, c = 14.450 Å). The framework structure of ITQ-44 is closely related to that of ITQ-33, another germanosilicate zeolite (IZA framework type code: ITT). (128) ITQ-33 is built up from the [32·43·69] cage with two additional T atoms inside (Figure 23a). The [32·43·69] cages connect to one another horizontally via d4r cages, forming extra-large 18-ring channels along the [001] direction; meanwhile, the [32·43·69] cages connect to one another vertically by fusing adjacent 3-rings, forming interconnecting 10-ring channels running along the 100 directions (Figure 23bd). In comparison, in ITQ-44, the 3-rings vertically connecting adjacent [32·43·69] cages are not fused; they form the d3r cages instead (Figure 23e). As a consequence, the 18-ring channels (12.2 Å) along the [001] direction in ITQ-33 are retained in ITQ-44 (12.5 Å); the interconnecting 10-ring channels (4.3 × 6.1 Å2) along the 100 directions in ITQ-33 are expanded to 12-ring channels (8.2 × 6.0 Å2) in ITQ-44, due to the existence of d3r cages. ITQ-44 is the first zeolite possessing a three-dimensional channel system formed by interconnecting 18- and 12-ring channels. The framework density of ITQ-44 is 10.9 T/1000 Å3. The organic structure-directing agent residing in ITQ-44 could be removed by calcination at 550 C under a N2/O2 flow.
Figure 23 Figure 23. Framework structures of ITQ-33 and ITQ-44. (a) The primary building unit in these two structures. (b) The building units connect to one another via d4r cages. The bold arrow indicates the connection. (c) The 18-ring channels viewed along the [001] direction. (d) The formation of the 10-ring channels in ITQ-33: 3-rings are fused. (e) The formation of d3r and 12-ring channels in ITQ-44: 3-rings are not fused. Oxygen atoms have been omitted for clarity. Reprinted with permission from ref 127. Copyright 2010 Wiley-VCH.
The idealized framework topology of ITQ-44, named IRR by IZA-SC, has the same symmetry as ITQ-44. The topology of IRR had been predicted by Foster and Treacy (129) in theory before ITQ-44 was synthesized.
3.1.5 ITQ-43
ITQ-43 ([Ge0.31Si0.69O2]) is a germanosilicate zeolite synthesized by using (2R,6S)-2,6-dimethylspiro[isoindoline-2,1-piperidin]-1-ium hydroxide as the organic structure-directing agent. (130) ITQ-43 has an orthorhombic unit cell (Cmmm; a = 26.090 Å, b = 41.866 Å, c = 12.836 Å). The framework of ITQ-43 is constructed from d4r cages, mel cages, and 6-rings (Figure 24a). Two distorted d4r cages (with terminal hydroxyl groups), one mel cage, and a pair of fused 6-rings form the CBU of ITQ-43 (Figure 24b), which connects to its neighbors along the [010] direction, forming two-dimensional sheet structures (Figure 24c). These sheets are connected to one another via d4r cages along the [001] direction and form the complete framework of ITQ-43 (Figure 25a,b).
Figure 24 Figure 24. (a) The primary building blocks in ITQ-43. (b) The composite building unit formed by the primary building blocks. (c) The sheet structure viewed along the [001] direction. Oxygen atoms are omitted for clarity.
ITQ-43 features one-dimensional cloverleaf-like 28-ring channels running along the [001] direction (Figure 25c). The 28-ring channel-openings have the dimensions of 21.9 × 19.6 Å2 in their longest axes, which are in the range of mesopores. These mesoporous 28-ring channels are further connected to a two-dimensional channel system formed by 12-ring channels along the [100] direction (6.8 × 6.1 Å2) and the 110 directions (7.8 × 5.7 Å2) (Figure 25). The resulting three-dimensional channel system leads to a framework density of 11.4 T/1000 Å3. ITQ-43 is the first hierarchical crystalline zeolitic structure consisting of both micropores and mesopores that are intrinsic to the framework. The organic structure-directing agent within these pores could be removed by in situ calcination at 700 C under a continuous flow of dry air.
Figure 25 Figure 25. Framework of ITQ-43 viewed along (a) [100], (b) [010], and (c) [001] directions. Oxygen atoms are omitted for clarity.
3.1.6 ITQ-37 (ITV)
ITQ-37 ((C22N2H40)10.5(H2O)x[Ge80Si112O400H32F20]) is a germanosilicate zeolite synthesized by using a bulky diquaternary ammonium molecule as the structure-directing agent. (131) ITQ-37 crystallizes in a cubic unit cell (P4132 or P4332; a = 26.513 Å). The CBUs for ITQ-37 are lau cages and d4r cages with one or two terminal hydroxyl groups (Figure 26a). Three lau and four d4r cages form a tertiary building unit; the tertiary building units connect to one another and eventually form the three-dimensional framework of ITQ-37 (Figure 26b). The connectivity of the tertiary building units follows a three-coordinated gyroidal srs net. (132) Figure 26 Figure 26. Framework and corresponding net of ITQ-37. (a) A slice (15.3 Å thick) viewed down the [111] direction. Only the TT connections and the terminal hydroxyl groups are shown. All d4r cages have the same orientation. (b) The 30-ring built from 10 tertiary building units. One of them is highlighted (lau cage in orange and d4r cage in green). The centers of the tertiary building units fall on the nodes of the srs net (in orange). Reprinted with permission from ref 131. Copyright 2009 Nature Publishing Group.
The framework of ITQ-37 possesses a very open three-dimensional channel system. The channel-openings are asymmetric and enclosed by 30 T atoms (4.3 × 19.3 Å2), which are the largest among all known zeolites to date. The extra-large 30-ring channel system leads to an extremely low framework density (10.3 T/1000 Å3). Unlike other extra-large-pore zeolites, ITQ-37 is quite thermally stable after the removal of the organic structure-directing agent. Corma and co-workers showed that a pelletized sample of ITQ-37 calcined at 540 C could remain stable for 2 weeks at room temperature in a moisture-free environment.
The idealized framework topology of ITQ-37, named ITV by IZA-SC, has the same symmetry as ITQ-37, indicating its intrinsic chirality (see section 3.3).
3.2 Structures with Unprecedented Complexity
Although the information-based topological complexity reflects the complexity of a zeolite framework more accurately (see section 2.2.6), the number of topologically distinct T atoms has actually been the most widely used complexity measure because of its simplicity. By the time the sixth edition of Atlas of Zeolite Framework Types was published in 2007, (31) the most complex zeolite frameworks (TUN (133) and IMF (134)) possessed 24 distinct T atoms. In this section, we will show several recently reported structures with unprecedented complexity, which are difficult to solve and to describe. These complex structures may contain distinct T atoms more than 24, consist of many topologically distinct building units, or possess defects and stacking disorders.
3.2.1 SSZ-74 (SVR)
High-silica zeolite SSZ-74 ((C16H34N2)4[Si924O184(OH)8];  stands for a vacancy site) was synthesized by using 1,6-bis(N-methylpyrrolidinium)-hexane as the structure-directing agent. In 2008, McCusker and co-workers solved its structure by combining powder X-ray diffraction and electron microscopy data within the charge-flipping algorithm (see section 4.1.2). (135) SSZ-74 has a monoclinic unit cell (Cc; a = 20.4756 Å, b = 13.3839 Å, c = 20.0859 Å, β = 102.1). SSZ-74 features a three-dimensional channel system, in which 10-ring channels running along the [010], [110], and [001] directions are interconnected with one another (Figure 27).
Figure 27 Figure 27. Framework structure of SSZ-74. (a) A portion of the structure showing the T vacancy and the interaction between O3 and O33 of the framework with N13 and N5 of the structure-directing agent. (b) Projections of the framework structure down the [010], [110], and [001] directions showing the arrangement of the vacancies and of the 10-ring pore-openings. Bridging oxygen atoms are omitted for clarity. Reprinted with permission from ref 135. Copyright 2008 Nature Publishing Group.
SSZ-74 is a complex zeolite structure because it contains 24 crystallographically distinct T atom sites. In addition, one of the 24 T sites has zero occupancy. In other words, SSZ-74 contains ordered T vacancies. Each vacancy is tetrahedrally surrounded by four framework oxygen atoms, which has never been observed before. Assuming the charge-balance argument, two of the four O atoms near the T vacancy are siloxy oxygens, which are close to N atoms of the doubly charged structure-directing agents; the remaining two O atoms should be silanol oxygens (Figure 27). Because of these vacancies, the framework of SSZ-74 is not stable upon calcination. The idealized framework topology of SSZ-74, named SVR by IZA-SC, has the same symmetry as SSZ-74.
3.2.2 SSZ-31 (*STO)
High-silica zeolite SSZ-31 is an extreme example of highly complex and faulted structures. (136, 137) SSZ-31 was first synthesized in 1991 by using N,N,N-trimethyltricyclo[5.2.1.02,6]decaneammonium as the structure-directing agent. It took over 10 years until its final structure was elucidated with the aid of adsorption measurement, TEM, high-resolution X-ray diffraction, and model-building techniques. The basic building units of SSZ-31 are tubular 12-ring pores with diameters of 8.6 × 5.7 Å2, which are constructed from rolled-up honeycomb-like sheets of fused 6-rings (Figure 28a). These tubular pores are arranged into different types of layers depending on whether the shift between adjacent pores in the layer is zero or one-half of the repeat distance along the pore. Different 12-ring layers may be stacked in different ways to form various three-dimensional framework structures. According to van Koningsveld and Lobos result, SSZ-31 might be the intergrowths of 10 end structures (polymorphs AJ), each of which is constructed from a unique stacking of 12-ring layers. (137) The local porous structures are the same in all of these end structures; therefore, the stacking disorder in SSZ-31 does not block the 12-ring pores in it.
The stacking disorder is not the only factor that makes SSZ-31 so complex. Actually, some of the individual end structures of SSZ-31 are very complex, too. For instance, its polymorph I has the symmetry of P2/m and contains 28 topologically distinct T atoms. To build the framework structure of polymorph I, it requires 9 topologically distinct and 40 crystallographically distinct NBUs (see section 2.2.3). SSZ-31 was named *STO by IZA-SC, and its polymorph I was selected as its type material (Figure 28b).
Figure 28 Figure 28. (a) The tubular 12-ring pore in SSZ-31. (b) The polymorph I viewed along the pore axis.
3.2.3 ITQ-39
Pure silicate and aluminosilicate zeolites ITQ-39 were synthesized by using dicationic piperidine derivatives as the structure-directing agents. (138) In 2012, Zou and co-workers solved its structure with the aid of rotation electron diffraction tomography (see section 4.2.2). (139) ITQ-39 is constructed from the intergrowth of three different polymorphs (designated A, B, and C), which are all built from the same building layer (Figure 29a) but stacked differently along c*. In polymorph A, the neighboring building layers are shifted alternately by +1/3b and then 1/3b; in polymorph B, the neighboring layers are shifted by 1/3b; in polymorph C, the neighboring layers are stacked with no shift (Figure 29b). All three polymorphs give the same projection along b, showing the unique pairwise 12-ring channels (Figure 29c). The 12-ring channels are interconnected by three zigzagged 10-ring channels along the a, c, and a + c axes. Just like that in SSZ-31 (see section 3.2.2), the stacking disorder does not block these channels.
Figure 29 Figure 29. Three-dimensional electron potential map and atomic structure model of the stacking disorder in ITQ-39. (a) Three-dimensional electron potential map of the building layer of ITQ-39. The refined structure model of ITQ-39 is superimposed, and only the SiSi connections are shown. (b) Atomic structure model of the three polymorphs viewed along a. The building layers (highlighted) are stacked along c*. (c) Projection along b showing the unique pairwise 12-ring channels. Reprinted with permission from ref 139. Copyright 2012 Nature Publishing Group.
The three polymorphs of ITQ-39 have the symmetries of P2/c, P1, and P2/m, respectively. The structure of each individual polymorph is very complex; they contain 28, 28, and 16 topologically distinct Si atoms, respectively. Two of the silicon atoms in polymorphs A and B and one in polymorph C are three-connected, each of which has an occupancy of 0.5.
3.2.4 SSZ-57 (*SFV)
High-silica zeolite SSZ-57 was synthesized in hydroxide media by using the bulky N-butyl-N-cyclohexylpyrrolidinium cation as the structure-directing agent. In 2011, McCusker and co-workers solved this structure by applying the advanced crystallographic techniques to high-quality single-crystal X-ray diffraction data collected for a microcrystal. (140) The idealized model of SSZ-57 has a complex modulated structure (space group: P4m2; a = 20.091 Å, c = 110.056 Å). It can be described as a disturbed ZSM-11 structure (MEL), where one of the 16 10-ring channels is replaced by a 12-ring channel (Figure 30). Because of the tetragonal symmetry, there are two mutually perpendicular 12-ring channels per unit cell; at each 12-ring interruption, the ZSM-11 structure is rotated by 90 around the c axis.
Figure 30 Figure 30. Framework structure of SSZ-57 viewed along the [010] direction. Bridging O atoms have been omitted for clarity. The arrow indicates the 12-ring channel along the [100] direction.
The idealized framework model of SSZ-57 was named *SFV by IZA-SC. The number of crystallographically distinct T atoms in *SFV has reached 99, which is an overwhelmingly large number in comparison with 28, the second largest number known so far (see SSZ-31 and ITQ-39). To build the idealized model of *SFV, it requires 15 topologically distinct and 113 crystallographically distinct NBUs. However, *SFV is only the idealized framework model of SSZ-57, which cannot explain all of the peaks in the electron density map. (140) In fact, the 12-rings and the 8-rings are disordered in the structure of SSZ-57. A detailed description of the disorder in this structure can be found in ref 140.
3.3 Structures with Intrinsically Chiral Frameworks
Chiral zeolitic materials are highly desired because of their potential applications in enantioselective catalysis and separation. In general, a zeolitic structure is chiral if it does not possess any improper rotational symmetry element. The chirality of a zeolite may come from its underlying framework topology, the distribution of framework heteroatoms, or the arrangement of extra-framework species. (141) A zeolite framework is intrinsically chiral if the maximum symmetry of its underlying topology is chiral. (142) Intrinsically chiral zeolite frameworks are quite rare. When the sixth edition of Atlas of Zeolite Framework Types was published in 2007, there were only four intrinsically chiral zeolite framework types, including *BEA, CZP, GOO, and OSO. To date, more intrinsically chiral zeolites have been discovered. For instance, ITQ-37 (ITV) shown in section 3.1.6 is an intrinsically chiral zeolite. In this section, we will show a few more examples of intrinsically chiral structures. It is worth mentioning that most chiral zeolites, including intrinsically chiral ones, can only be prepared as racemic mixtures.
3.3.1 SU-32 (STW)
silicogermanate zeolite SU-32 ((H3NCH(CH3)2F)6[Ge31.68Si28.32O120]) was synthesized under hydrothermal conditions by using diisopropylamine as the structure-directing agent. (143) SU-32 has the chiral symmetry of P6122 or P6522. Its framework structure is composed of the d4r cages and the [46·58·82·102] cavities. The [46·58·82·102] cavities connect to their neighbors by sharing the common 10-rings to form helical channels running along the c axis (Figure 31a). All of the helical channels have the same handedness (Figure 31b). The helical channels are interconnected with 8-ring channels running along the [100], [010], and [110] directions at different heights (Figure 31b). The free diameters of the 10- and 8-ring channel-openings are 5.5 × 5.0 and 4.7 × 3.0 Å2, respectively. The organic structure-directing agent residing in these channels could be removed by calcination at 400 C. The framework density of SU-32 is 15.3 T/1000 Å3.
Figure 31 Figure 31. Helical channels in SU-32. (a) The right-handed helical channels in SU-32 (space group: P6122). One of the [46·58·82·102] cavities is marked in yellow. Only the TT connections are shown. (b) Tiling representation showing the channel system in SU-32. All of the helical channels have the same handedness. Reprinted with permission from ref 143. Copyright 2008 Nature Publishing Group.
The idealized framework topology of SU-32 has the same chiral symmetry as SU-32, which was named STW by IZA-SC. In 2012, a pure silica polymorph of STW, HPM-1, was synthesized by using 2-ethyl-1,3,4-trimethylimidazolium cations as the structure-directing agent. (144) This is the first pure silica chiral zeolite with helical pores. It is worth mentioning that STW is closely related to SOF. Both frameworks are constructed by the same chiral layer. (143) The relation between these two frameworks is analogous to that between the polymorphs A and B of zeolite beta.
3.3.2 CJ-40 (JRY)
Cobalt aluminophosphate zeolite CJ-40 ((C4NH12)2[Co2Al10P12O48]) was synthesized by using diethylamine as the structure-directing agent under solvothermal conditions. (145) CJ-40 has the chiral symmetry of P212121. The framework of CJ-40 possesses one-dimensional 10-ring channels running along the [010] direction (Figure 32a). The free diameters of the 10-ring channels are 4.4 × 2.2 Å2. The 10-ring channels are enclosed by double-helical ribbons of the same handedness made of the fused 6-rings along the 21 screw axis (Figure 32b). Unlike those in other heteroatom-containing aluminophosphate zeolites, the cobalt atoms in CJ-40 selectively occupy one of the three Al sites, forming a helical arrangement around the 10-ring channel. Protonated diethylamine molecules reside in the 10-ring channels; removal of them by calcination results in the collapse of the host framework.
Figure 32 Figure 32. Framework structure of CJ-40. (a) View along the [010] direction. (b) The 10-ring channel enclosed by double-helical ribbons made of fused 6-rings. Reprinted with permission from ref 145. Copyright 2009 Wiley-VCH.
The idealized framework topology of CJ-40, named JRY by IZA-SC, has the chiral symmetry of I212121. It is worth mentioning that the bulk products of CJ-40 obtained from synthesis were not racemic even though no chiral starting materials were added into the reacting mixtures.
3.3.3 Linde J (LTJ)
Aluminosilicate zeolite Linde J ((NH4)8(H2O)4[Al8Si8O32]) was first synthesized in the early 1960s. Although the framework model of Linde J had already been built in the 1990s, it is until recently that the structure of the as-synthesized Linde J was determined. (146) The as-synthesized Linde J has the chiral symmetry of P212121. The primary building units of Linde J are parallel two-dimensional 4·82-nets, which are further linked to their neighbors to form the complete three-dimensional framework of Linde J (Figure 33). The AlO4 and SiO4 tetrahedra are connected alternately. The zigzag 8-ring channels along the [010] direction interconnect with the 8-ring channels along the [100] direction, forming a two-dimensional 8-ring channel system. The idealized framework topology of Linde J, named LTJ by IZA-SC, has the chiral symmetry of P41212.
Figure 33 Figure 33. Linde J viewed along the [010] direction showing Si-tetrahedra (yellow) and Al-tetrahedra (red). Extra-framework species are also shown. Reprinted with permission from ref 146. Copyright 2011 Elsevier.
3.4 Structures with 3-Rings
Since the prediction made by Brunner and Meier that zeolites consisting of lots of small rings might possess very low FD, (147) many efforts have been made to synthesize 3-ringed zeolites because of their potentially high porosity. However, 3-rings are not favored in conventional silicate or aluminophosphate zeolites. By the time the sixth edition of Atlas of Zeolite Framework Types was published in 2007, (31) there were only 13 zeolite structures possessing 3-rings. This is because 3-rings require very small TOT angles that are energetically unfavorable for SiO4 and AlO4 tetrahedra. To date, it has been widely accepted that the strains in 3-rings can be effectively released by nonconventional T elements, such as Be, Ge, and transition metals. Following this idea, many new zeolites with 3-rings have been synthesized during the past few years. For instance, as we have shown above, ITQ-40 and ITQ-44 (IRR) both possess d3r cages (double-3-rings); LSJ-10 (JOZ) possesses lov units (corner-sharing 3-ring pairs). In this section, we will show a few more examples of 3-ring-dominant structures.
3.4.1 CJ-63 (JST)
Gallogermanate zeolite CJ-63 (Ni(en)3[Ga2Ge4O12], en = ethylenediamine) was synthesized by using [Ni(en)3]2+ cations as the structure-directing agent under solvothermal conditions. (148) CJ-63 has a cubic unit cell (Pa3; a = 16.572 Å). The framework of CJ-63 possesses interconnecting 10-ring channels running along the [100], [010], and [001] directions (Figure 34a). This large three-dimensional channel system leads to a low framework density of 10.5 T/1000 Å3. The channel-openings have free diameters of 6.7 × 5.6 Å2. The framework of CJ-63 features two types of unique cavities, the [34·6·103] cavities (Figure 34b) and the [38·106] cavities (Figure 34c). The [34·6·103] cavity is chiral, which holds the [Ni(C3H10N2)3]2+ cations of the same handedness. Because of their strong nonbonding interactions with the host framework, these [Ni(C3H10N2)3]2+ cations could not be removed by calcination in air.
Figure 34 Figure 34. (a) The framework of CJ-63 viewed along the [100] direction, (b) the [34·6·103] cavity, and (c) the [38·106] cavity. The gray spheres show the pores in cages. All oxygen atoms are omitted for clarity. Reprinted with permission from ref 148. Copyright 2011 Wiley-VCH.
The framework of CJ-63 is constructed exclusively from 3-rings (all of the T atoms in CJ-63 are involved in 3-rings). There are two types of unique 3-rings in CJ-63, one of which has C1 symmetry (C1-3Rs) and the other C3 symmetry (C3-3Rs). Each C3-3R is surrounded by three C1-3Rs, whereas each C1-3R is surrounded by two C1-3Rs and one C3-3R. Adjacent 3-rings connect to each other to form a lov (spiro-5) unit, and the lov units are connected to one another to construct the complete framework of CJ-63. The idealized framework topology of CJ-63 was named JST by IZA-SC. It was found afterward that JST was also realizable as aluminogermanates, but the Al/Ge ratio in them could not exceed 1/2 due to the restriction of Loewensteins rule. (149)
3.4.2 PKU-9 (PUN)
Aluminogermanate zeolite PKU-9 ((C5H14N)8[Al8Ge28O72]) was synthesized under hydrothermal conditions by using trimethylethylammonium hydroxide as the structure-directing agent. (150) PKU-9 has an orthorhombic unit cell (Pbcn; a = 15.578 Å, b = 9.1704 Å, c = 19.993 Å). PKU-9 possesses a two-dimensional channel system formed by the 10-ring channels running along the [001], [110], and [110] directions. The 10-ring channel system is further connected with the 8-ring channels along the [001] direction, forming a three-dimensional channel system. Trimethylethylammonium cations are located in the 10-ring channels; they could not be removed by calcination because of their strong nonbonding interactions with the host framework.
The framework of PKU-9 can be decomposed into undulating CGS layers (Figure 35a), which can be further decomposed into zigzag 4-ring ladders (Figure 35b). The zigzag ladders connect to one another through 4-rings to form the CGS layers; adjacent CGS layers connect to one another through additional T atoms, forming the lov units and the complete framework of PKU-9. The idealized framework topology of PKU-9, named PUN by IZA-SC, has the same symmetry as PKU-9. PUN contains five crystallographically distinct T atoms, three of which are involved in 3-rings.
Figure 35 Figure 35. (a) The framework of PKU-9 viewed along the [010] direction. The lov (spiro-5) unit is emphasized by an ellipse; the tetrahedra in the CGS layers are shown in red and blue. (b) The CGS layer, with two zigzag 4-ring ladders shaded in green and cyan, respectively. Reprinted with permission from ref 150. Copyright 2009 American Chemical Society.
3.4.3 Oxonitridophosphate-2 (NPT)
As compared to oxygen, nitrogen atoms can be either two- or three-coordinated to tetrahedral centers, and therefore are more suitable for small TXT angles. Replacing oxygen by nitrogen can not only stabilize the 3-rings but also produce adjustable charges in zeolite frameworks. Therefore, nitride zeolites may possess a larger diversity of 3-ringed structures than conventional oxide zeolites. The first successful example of nitride zeolites with a large quantity of 3-rings is oxonitridophosphate-1, (151) whose framework topology was named NPO by IZA-SC in 2004. NPO is constructed exclusively from 3-rings, possessing one-dimensional 12-ring channels.
In 2011, the second nitride zeolite, oxonitridophosphate-2 (Ba152Cl100.32[P288O84.32N491.68]), was reported. (152) Oxonitridophosphate-2 has a cubic unit cell (Fm3c; a = 26.854 Å). The basic building units in oxonitridophosphate-2 are corner-sharing P(O/N)4 tetrahedra (Figure 36). Oxonitridophosphate-2 features a new type of cavities, that is, the [38·46·812] cavities. These new cavities connect to one another via 4-rings, yielding 8-ring channels along the 100 directions with free diameters of 2.9 × 2.9 Å2 (assuming the diameter of N to be 2.94 Å). Oxonitridophosphate-2 possesses a large quantity of 3-rings; all of the T atoms in this structure are involved in 3-rings. Oxonitridophosphate-2 has a surprising thermal stability up to at least 1100 C, a temperature where most 3-ringed zeolites are already decomposed. The idealized framework topology of oxonitridophosphate-2, named NPT by IZA-SC, has the symmetry of Pm3m. The unit cell of NPT is 1/8 the size of the original oxonitridophosphate-2.
Figure 36 Figure 36. Framework of oxonitridophosphate-2. Top: Drawing with PN bonding. Bottom: Representation with only PP linking. Reprinted with permission from ref 152. Copyright 2011 American Chemical Society.
3.4.4 Be-10 (BOZ)
Beryllium arsenate zeolite Be-10 ((C2H5NH2,H2O)x[Be66.7As25.3O80.5(OH)103.5] was synthesized under hydrothermal conditions by using ethylamine as the structure-directing agent. (153) 80% of the extra-framework species, including ethylamine and water molecules, could be removed from the host framework by calcination below 250 C. Be-10 has the monoclinic symmetry of P21/m, whereas its idealized framework topology, named BOZ by IZA-SC, has the orthorhombic symmetry of Cmcm. The structure of BOZ features two unique cavity types: the [310·85·102] cavities and the [36·41·62·84] cavities (Figure 37a,b). These cavities connect to one another, forming thick layers in the ac plane; neighboring thick layers are connected via lov units, forming the complete framework of BOZ. BOZ possesses a complex two-dimensional channel system constructed by 10-ring channels running along the [001], [100], [101], and [101] directions, and 8-ring channels along the [001] and [100] directions (Figure 37c,d). BOZ possesses a large quantity of 3-rings; all of the eight crystallographically distinct T atoms in BOZ are involved in 3-rings.Figure 37 Figure 37. Framework structure of BOZ. The (a) [310·85·102] and (b) [36·41·62·84] cavities. (c) The structure viewed down the [100] direction and (d) along the [001] direction. The T(O/OH)4 tetrahedra are shaded blue, and oxygen atoms are shown as red spheres. One position of each of the two cavities is outlined with pale yellow shading in each view, as an ellipse and a circle, respectively. Reprinted with permission from ref 153. Copyright 2012 Nature Publishing Group.Along with Be-10, Be-11 and Be-12 were also synthesized under similar conditions. (153) The framework structures of Be-11 and Be-12 are similar to that of Be-10. They both possess two-dimensional channel systems formed by interconnecting 10- and 8-ring channels. There are a large quantity of 3-rings in these two structures, too.
3.5 Future Development
Because of their high adsorption capability and special shape-selectivity for bulky molecules, many efforts have been made to synthesize large-pore zeolites. Before 2007, the largest pore-opening was 20-ring (CLO). To date, both 28- (in ITQ-43) and 30-rings (in ITV) have been discovered. However, it is worth noting that all of these record-holding rings can only be found in interrupted frameworks. Among fully four-connected frameworks, the largest pore-opening is still 18-ring (in ETR, IRR, ITT, and VFI). Because these frameworks are generally more stable than interrupted ones, more efforts should be made to realize uninterrupted zeolites with ring-openings larger than 18-ring. Meanwhile, 13- and 17-rings are the last two missing members in the family of pore-openings less than 18-ring. Theoretically speaking, both of these two extra-large odd-numbered rings should be energetically realizable. (49) The lack of experimental exploration is unlikely to be the true reason for their missing. In fact, small and medium odd-numbered rings (3-, 5-, 7-, and 9-rings) are not rarely observed; 3- and 5-rings are even abundant in germanate and silicate zeolites, respectively. In comparison, 11-rings occur only in NU-86 and JSR; 15-rings occur only in IRY. The reason large odd-numbered rings are so rarely observed deserves more theoretical and experimental explorations.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 