I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Thermo-stimulated surface segregation in the ordering alloy Pt80Co20(1 1 1): Experiment and modeling
M.A. Vasylyev a,*, V.A. Tinkov a, A.G. Blaschuk a, J. Luyten b, C. Creemers b
a Institute of Metal Physics, Nat. Acad. Sci. Ukraine, Akad Vernadsky Blvd. 36, 03680 Kiev-142, Ukraine b Chemical Engineering Department, W. de Croylaan 46, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium Received 17 July 2005; accepted 18 December 2005 Available online 3 April 2006 Abstract In this paper, a method of Ionization Spectroscopy (IS) is proposed for the non-destructive layer-by-layer analysis of the elemental composition of a solid surface. Using ionization energy loss spectra, a layer-by-layer concentration profile of the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) alloy surface is obtained for different annealing temperatures. For the disordered Pt80Co20(1 1 1) at room temperature, the first atomic layer consists of pure Pt with damped oscillations in the deeper layers. Heating the sample reduces the oscillations. However, at a temperature of 823 K, a sandwich-like structure of the type Pt/Co/Pt was found in the first three atomic layers. For the ordered state the first atomic layer also consists of pure Pt with bulk concentration in other layers. LEED analysis shows a p(2  2) superstructure for the surface of the ordered Pt80Co20(1 1 1) alloy. The segregation behavior in this alloy is further studied by Monte Carlo (MC) simulations combined with the Constant Bond Energy (CBE) model. The results of the MC simulations agree well with the experiments at the higher temperatures, both for the surface composition and the concentration depth profile. At lower temperatures, some discrepancies exist between the MC results and the measured concentration profile.
# 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
PACS: 79.20.H; 64.75; 68.35.B; 05.70.; 07.05.Tp
Keywords: Layer-by-layer non-destructive analysis; Ionization Spectroscopy; Surface segregation; Surface structure; (Dis)ordered alloy; Pt80Co20(1 1 1); Monte Carlo modeling
1. Introduction
The structural and quantitative properties of alloy surfaces have been the subject of numerous studies in view of developing a better understanding of the alloys catalysis. In particular, binary alloys and intermetallic compounds of platinum have quite interesting physico-chemical properties and these materials are widely used in nanotechnology and catalysis [1,2].
A lot of work was devoted to the study of segregation in the PtCo alloys [18]. Basically a competition is expected between two mechanisms that have a significant effect on the segregation: lowering of the surface energy by segregation and the tendency for chemical ordering in the bulk and also in the surface region (with possibly, the formation of a reconstructed surface). PtCo is known to have a strong chemical ordering enthalpy, which is the origin of the ordered L12 and L10 phases of Pt3Co and PtCo, respectively. Depending on the bulk composition, temperature and surface orientation, the interplay of these driving forced leads to different degrees of surface enrichment [15]. Furthermore, in order to minimize the total energy, PtCo alloys may also undergo a (2  1) missing-row reconstruction which is the thermodynamically stable config- uration of the clean Pt(1 1 0) surface [7].
In recent years several non-destructive methods have been used for surface analysis. Surface segregation in metallic alloys can be studied with Auger Electron Spectroscopy and X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy, but the possibilities for obtaining a layer-by-layer composition depth profile with these methods are not well established [9]. Low Energy Ion Scattering is extremely sensitive to the surface composition, but it cannot give direct information on the composition in deeper atomic layers. Furthermore, the study of alloys of components with comparable atomic masses is difficult. Low Energy Electron Diffraction (LEED) is capable of accurately measuring the composition of the three outermost layers of substitutionally www.elsevier.com/locate/apsusc Applied Surface Science 253 (2006) 10811089 * Corresponding author. Tel.: +380 44 424 25 20.
E-mail address: vasil@imp.kiev.ua (M.A. Vasylyev). 0169-4332/$  see front matter # 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.apsusc.2005.12.172 (dis)ordered bimetallic alloys of type PtMe, where Me is Fe, Co, Ni, Cu [15], but even LEED does not allow to obtain a layer-by-layer composition profile for more than three layers.
Gerlach et al. [1012] was the first to apply Ionization Spectroscopy (IS) for the analysis of V, Ni, Pd and Mo as impurities on the surface of polycrystalline metals without depth analysis. In ref. [13] IS was used to analyze the surface composition of single crystal alloys of CoNi and FeNi.
However, the methodic described for the reconstruction of the layer-by-layer concentration profile cannot be applied for alloys with strongly differing atomic masses of the components as it does not allow to account for the influence of matrix effects.
The aim of the present work is to use Ionization Spectro- scopy for the non-destructive study of the layer-by-layer composition of the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) surface as a function of the heating temperature. Next, the experimental results are compared to Monte Carlo (MC) simulations, combined with the simple Constant Bond Energy (CBE) model.
Thepresent paperisorganized asfollows: Section 2 reportson the experiment and the characterization of the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) surface, Section 3 describes the physical basis of Ionization Spectroscopy, the layer-by-layer reconstruction methods and the IS analysis. Finally, Section 4 deals with the MC simulation set- up, while in Section 5 the results are discussed.
2. Experiment and characterization
A single-crystal sample of the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) alloy was investigated in an UHV chamber equipped with electron and ion guns and with a four-grid LEED optics with an energy resolution of 0.3% [14]. Pumping with a titanium magneto- discharge pump and a titanium sublimation pump results in partial pressures of residual gases not exceeding 108 Pa. In the vacuum chamber, the sample is heated by a tungsten coil and the temperature is measured with a Pt/Pt10% Rh thermo- couple attached to the surface. The sample surface was cleaned by cycled argon ion bombardments at 600 eV and in situ annealing at 900 K during 1 h, until S, C and O impurities were no longer detectable and LEED intensities were reproducible.
Ionization spectroscopy was chosen for the non-destructive in- depth analysis of the surface composition of Pt80Co20(1 1 1).
Fig. 1 shows an example of the ionization of core levels of platinum (DEPt O2;3  54 eV) and cobalt (DECo M2;3  62 eV) [15] versus energy of primary electrons, E0, for the surface of the alloy at room temperature. The errors of the ionization line (IL) measurements do not exceed 57%.
The Pt80Co20(1 1 1) single crystal was grown using the Czochralski method. The composition, controlled by atomic absorption spectroscopy and by X-ray emission, is very uniform along the sample and equal to 80 at% Pt within 1%.
The lattice parameter in the g phase, extracted from X-ray measurements, is in close agreement with the tabulated value a = 3.855 A and interlayer distance 2.226 A [16].
According to the phase diagram [17] (Fig. 2), in the high temperature range, the alloy has a g structure (disordered solution), which also exists at room temperature for bulk Pt contents larger than 8085%. The transition temperature between the g and g2 phases for Pt80Co20 is 620680 8C [17].
The distinct diffraction spots from the clean (1 1 1) surface form a regular hexagon, pointing at the (1  1) bulk-like structure. In the ordered phase, Pt80Co20 is very similar to the stoichiometric phase Pt3Co, the excess Pt concentration being randomly distributed on the cobalt sublattice. In other words, the bulk unit cell can be viewed as containing three Pt atoms and one atom consisting on the average of 4/5 Co + 1/5 Pt.
3. Ionization Spectroscopy
3.1. Physical model
IS is based on the measurement of the energy spectra of electrons, which have lost a particular portion of the energy DEb for the excitation of electronic transitions, that are typical for a given kind of atom b. The position of an IL in the spectrum with respect to the primary electron energy E0 is determined by the binding energy of electrons in the ground state and by the distribution of the density of empty states, but it does not depend on the value of E0, on the work function or on the value of the surface charge. One important advantage of the IS method over other methods of electronic spectroscopy is the possibility to vary the probing depth by varying E0 [15].
The calculation of the contribution to the intensity of an IL by the electrons having lost an amount of energy DEb at the depth Z from the sample surface by the ionization of the core states of the atoms b is simple when a traditional experimental configuration is used (an incident beam of the primary electrons is directed perpendicularly to the sample surface (u0 = 0) and the secondary electrons are registered at the angle u with respect to the normal). In this case calculations within the framework of a two-stage model allow us to obtain the following expression for the intensity of an IL [15]: IbZ; E0 j  Ksb rbnbZexp
Z
Lb
;(1)
M.A. Vasylyev et al. / Applied Surface Science 253 (2006) 10811089
1082 Fig. 1. Ionization spectra for Pt80Co20(1 1 1) at room temperature. where K is an instrumental factor, sb the ionization cross- section of the core level, nb(Z) the concentration of atoms b at depth Z from surface and rb is the elastic scattering factor of electrons. Lb is the effective free-path of electrons in a sample with respect to inelastic collisions, which is determined by the equation:
L1
b  l1 0 lb cos u1:(2) For the PtMe (Me: Fe, Co, Ni, Cu) alloys [15,18] l0  1194
E2
0 j
0:429E1=2
0 j ;lb  lE0 j  DEb: An effective probing depth in IS amounts to 3Lb because the secondary electrons created in the near-surface region of this thickness contribute for 95% to the total intensity of an IL.
An increase of the effective probing depth upon increasing the energy E0 also results in an increased contribution from the deeper layers of the concentration profile into the IL intensity.
This enables us to carry out a layer-by-layer reconstruction of the concentration profiles of the elements using the energy dependencies of the IL.
After integration of Eq. (1) with respect to depth and spatial angle of the four-grid energy analyzer, an expression for the total IL intensity has the following form: IbE0  2pKsb
Z 1
0 Z Qmax Qmin
rbnbZexp
Z
Lb
sin Q dZ dQ;(3) where Qmin = 48 and Qmax = 708 are, respectively, the mini- mum and maximum values of polar angle for the standard quasi-spherical four-grid energy analyzer.
As pointed out above, the offered method is essentially not sensitive to the type of the energy analyzer used. Only the values of Qmin and Qmax that correspond to the concrete conditions of an experiment should be substituted in Eq. (3). In the case of a binary AB alloy, usually the ratio of intensities of A to B RAE0 j  IAE0 j; DEA IBE0 j; DEB (4) is measured experimentally in order to eliminate the instru- mental factor K, which is often unknown.
Let us consider as new variables the relative concentrations of the elements in a layer with number i: Nbi  nbinb;b  A; B;(5) where nb is the atomic volume of a pure component of an alloy.
After replacing the integral in Eq. (3) by a summation over N
M.A. Vasylyev et al. / Applied Surface Science 253 (2006) 10811089
1083 Fig. 2. Phase diagram for the CoPt alloy system [16] and schematic view of the unit cell: (a) solid solution g phase and (b) ordered structure g2 phase. and substituting the expression for Ib into formula (4), integra- tion with respect to the width of isolated layer d leads to: RAE0 j  sAlA i nB sBlB i nA
PN
i1 NAiPAi; E0 j
PN
i1 NBiPBi; E0 j ;(6) where for i = 1, 2, . . ., N  1 and DiE0 j; Q  exp
i  1d l0 cos Q cos Q sin Q l0  lb i cos Q ;(7) and for i = N Pbi; E0 j  exp
N  1d l0 Z Qmax Qmin DNE0 j; Q rb dQ:(8) Following the approach offered in [19], the expression (6) is transformed into a system of linear equations (SLE) with respect to NA(i) using the relation NA(i) + NB(i) = 1. As a result,we obtain (j = 1, 2, . . ., M)
PN
i1 NAi
sAlA i nB sBlB i nA PAi; E0 j  RAE0 jPBi; E0 j
PN
i1 PBi; E0 j RAE0 j;(9) where E0j is the energy of primary electrons for which we have measured the ratio of IL intensities RA(E0j). Assuming that all interlayer distances in the near-surface region of a single- crystal alloy are identical and equal to d, for summations in Eqs. (6) and (9) the number of terms is selected that corresponds to the selection of N monolayers parallel to a free surface, using the relationship (N  1)d = 3Lmax (where Lmax  LAEmax 0
LBEmax 0 =2). The system of linear equations (9) can be solved only when it is determined or overdetermined, i.e. if the inequality M  N is true for this system.
In the following sections, methods are presented for building the solution of Eq. (9) and for the numerical calculation of the concentration profiles within the framework of the described model.
3.2. Layer-by-layer reconstruction methods
A system of equations, describing the deviations of the concentrations in a monolayer i (NA(i)) from their bulk value NA, can be represented in matrix form by the expression
X
N
i1 Q ji dNAi RAE0 j;(10) where dNAi  NAi  NA;
RAE0 j  RAE0 j  NA
X
N
i1 Q ji;and an explicit form of the matrix elements Qji is evident from the expression (9). However, the practical solution of the Eq. (10) presents particular difficulties because the matrix elements Qji correspond to close energy intervals that do not differ sufficiently. As a result, the determinant of the matrix Q is close to zero and the system (10) is ill-conditioned. As a consequence, the errors in the matrix elements Qji and in the
RA values can result in an incorrect solution.
To construct a stable approximation for the solution of system (10), the condition gradients projection method, the conjugate gradients projection method,the method of conjugate gradient projected on the P+-space and also the regularization method [20] were used in the present work. More detailed information on techniques for solving ill-posed problems can be found in [1921]. The described regularization algorithm for the reconstruction of the elemental concentration profiles in a binary alloy on the basis of energy dependencies of the ratio of IL intensities is implemented in Fortran.
3.3. Results of the layer-by-layer reconstruction
For the thermodynamic equilibrium state, ionization spectra of both alloy components at different temperatures were measured. Fig. 3 shows the dependence of the IL ratio of Co to Pt for the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) alloy on E0, normalized to the IL of the pure components, at various temperatures. The chosen interval of primary electron energy corresponds to the region,where the influence of diffraction effects on the intensity of
M.A. Vasylyev et al. / Applied Surface Science 253 (2006) 10811089
1084 Fig. 3. The ratio of normalized ionization peaks of Pt and Co as a function of the primary electron energy for the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) surface at different temperatures.
Pbi; E0 j  exp
i  1d l0 Z Qmax Qmin DiE0 j; Q rb
1  exp
d Lb
dQ;ionization lines is minimal. Such a normalization is necessary to take into account possible matrix effects caused by the difference in atomic radius of platinum and cobalt. The results of the layer-by-layer reconstruction are shown in Fig. 4.
At the same time, these data show that different layers are not reconstructed with the same accuracy. The arithmetical mean error in the concentration determination for the first layer is, as a rule, less than for deeper layers. After all, with an exponential attenuation of the intensity of the electron flow with depth in the sample, the first layer gives the main contribution to the IL intensity. The error level is maximum for the layers in which the concentration strongly changes from layer to layer. The error level is much less for the layers in which the concentration is close to the bulk value. This is related to the choice of an initial approximation to the solution, which requires only minor corrections of the variables for these layers during the calculations. These tendencies are well observable in Fig. 4.
At room temperature, the (1 1 1) surface of the Pt80Co20 alloy is enriched to pure platinum, and shows an oscillating concentration profile up to the sixth atomic layer. Heating the sample to 613 K leads to a depletion of Pt atoms in the second layer (C2 Pt  24%) and to an insignificant enrichment of Co atoms in layers three to six in comparison with the profile at room temperature. Increasing the temperature further to 673 K is accompanied by a negligible segregation of Co from the second layer (C2 Pt  31%) to the first (C1 Pt  97%), while deeper layers remain practically unchanged. At 823 K, a sandwich-like structure of the type Pt/Co/Pt was found in the first three atomic layers. As is obvious from Fig. 4, heating the sample causes a smoothing of the oscillations in deeper layers towards the bulk concentration of thealloy. However, thefirst layerstill consists of pure Pt up to 873 K. Further increasing thetemperature gradually results in completely smoothed oscillations.
According to the phase diagram [17], the system exhibits orderdisorder phase transitions with formation of the ordered phases g1 and g2 (Fig. 1). Consequently, the sample was slowly cooled during 10 h from 1123 K to room temperature. As a result of this procedure, a chemically ordered alloy surface of the L12 type was obtained. LEED shows super-structural reflections in a diffraction pattern at E0 = 112 eV (Fig. 5a). A very similar diffraction pattern was observed in earlier work [22] for the ordered alloyCu3Au(1 1 1) at E0 = 55 eV. Theresult of the layer- by-layer reconstruction for the ordered state shows that the first atomic layer consists of pure platinum, and that the other atomic layers have concentrations near the bulk value of the alloy
M.A. Vasylyev et al. / Applied Surface Science 253 (2006) 10811089
1085 Fig. 4. Layer-by-layer Pt concentration profiles reconstructed from the electron energy lossionization spectra for thePt80Co20(1 1 1)alloy atthe different heating.
Fig. 5. LEED pattern for ordered surface of the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) alloy: (a) E0 = 112 eV and (b) E0 = 58 eV.
(Fig. 6). Probing the surface with primary electrons of 58 eV (corresponding to a probing depth of two atomic monolayers [18]),a p(2  2)structure(Fig.5b)wasfound.Theappearanceof these additional super-structural reflections in a diffraction pattern can be caused by two possible phenomena: chemical ordering at the surface of the alloy and/or a reconstruction of the surface. According to work [23] on Pt (1 0 0) and (1 1 0) surfaces, a reconstruction of the surface with formation of new superstructures takes place. For Pt(1 1 1) it was established, that the surface does not reconstruct but repeats the atomic locations of the (1 1 1) plane of the fcc bulk structure [24]. Consequently,in our case,the
LEED
superstructure observed on Pt80Co20(1 1 1) is presumably caused only by ordering in the surface region. In the process of ordering at Pt80Co20(1 1 1) the lattice parameter will decrease in comparison to the disordered state and then the enrichment of the first layer in platinum will favor the formation of the surface p(2  2) structure.
In order to obtain a model for the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) surface structure, reference can be made to the stoichiometric composition Pt3Co (Fig. 7). In ordered Pt3Co, every Co atom in the bulk is surrounded by12 Pt atoms. In theoutermost(1 1 1)- layer, which consists of pure platinum, two types of Pt atoms can be distinguished: 25% of the Pt atoms have three Pt neighbors in the second layer, while the second type Pt atoms have contact with only two Pt atoms and one Co atom. Since the atomic radius of Pt is some 11% larger than that of Co, the Pt atoms of the first type are buckled over an amount dz above the surface (compared to the type 2 atoms), and, as a result, the reconstructed p(2  2) structure is formed at the surface. In an earlier study [25], a similar situation was observed for Pt80Fe20(1 1 1).
4. Monte Carlo simulations
As a complement to experimental results, model calcula- tions can also provide deeper insight in segregation, ordering and reconstruction processes at alloy surfaces. In particular, Monte Carlo (MC) simulations combined with semi-empirical energy models have already shown to predict well, within experimental accuracy, surface composition, surface ordering and surface reconstructions [2629]. The simplest energy model is the Constant Bond Energy model, which is equivalent to the regular solution theory. More sophisticated models are the Embedded Atom Method [30], the Modified Embedded Atom Method [31] and the BozolloFerranteSmith model [32]. In this paper, only the CBE is used to investigate the segregation behavior to the (1 1 1) surface of the Pt80Co20 alloy.
The MC simulations are performed in the Canonical Ensemble (constant V, T, NA and NB) (CE). To test the accuracy,some results where checked against simulations in the Grand Canonical Ensemble (constant V, T and Ntot) (GCE). In this ensemble, however, one needs to know the exact value of the difference in chemical potential between the two components at the experimental conditions. This can only be determined iteratively at each temperature, according to the scheme given in ref. [33]. It turns out that there are no significant differences between the results in the two ensembles for a simulation slab of 24  24  24 atoms. For bulk simulations, periodic boundary conditions in three dimensions are imposed to mimic a (quasi)infinite block of material. For surface simulations, six empty layers (vacuum) are added to the simulation block, three on either side, in order to obtain a Pt Co film with two free surfaces. After long equilibration times (3  107 trial steps), ensemble averages are taken over the next 3  107 trial steps by sampling with an interval of 3  105 steps.
In the framework of the CBE model, the energy of a configuration X (EX) is calculated as a sum of pairwise atomic contributions (Ei)
EX
X
i Ei  1 2
X
i
X
j 6 i ei j (11) eij represents the binding energy of an atom pair ij. The sum over j is usually restricted to nearest neighbors only. The binding energy between like atoms is calculated from the experimental surface energies of the pure elements of the
M.A. Vasylyev et al. / Applied Surface Science 253 (2006) 10811089
1086 Fig. 6. Pt concentration depth profile for ordered Pt80Co20(1 1 1) alloy.
Fig. 7. Proposed structure for the p(2  2) reconstruction at the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) surface. alloy. The binding energy of an unlike atom pair is calculated as ei j  1 2eii  e j j  a (12) in which a is called the alloying parameter. The value of the alloying parameter is chosen so as to correctly reproduce the experimental value of the orderdisorder transition temperature of 1023 K for Pt3Co. This choice of a guarantees that at each temperature, the actual state of order in the bulk of the simulation slab closely resembles the experimental one.
The values of the CBE parameters for the PtCo system are given in Table 1. Fig. 8 shows the long-range order (LRO) and short-range order (SRO) for Pt3Co as a function of temperature,calculated by MC/CBE simulations. The MC/CBE simulation results for the surface composition are plotted as a function of temperature in Fig. 9.
5. Discussion
First, the change in composition of the outermost atomic layer upon segregation is considered. Next some attention is paid to the variation of the composition in the subsurface layers.
Traditionally, for surface segregation in alloys, four driving forces can be distinguished: lowering of the surface energy,lowering of total bond energy, (partial) release upon segrega- tion of the elastic strain energy around solute atoms and, finally,segregation driven by preferential chemisorption. Under the experimental UHV conditions, the latter can be neglected. In ordering alloys, the pronounced preference for the energetically favorable AB bonds and the ordered lattice necessitate a specific interpretation of these driving forces.
The first driving force strives at a lower surface energy of the alloy by segregation of the component with the lower surface energy, in this case Pt. The second effect tends to minimize the total bond energy in the sample. In a strictly stoichiometric compound, atoms end up on the wrong sublattice after segregation. Therefore, surface segregation is often endother- mic in such compounds and a substantial gain in surface energy is needed in order to generate an appreciable surface enrichment [34]. In off-stoichiometric ordered compounds such as Pt80Co20, on the other hand, the ideal ordering in the bulk is partially restored by exchanging excess Pt from the bulk with Co from the surface layer. Even without a difference in surface energy, lowering of the bond energy contributes exothermically to the segregation enthalpy. Consequently, this off-stoichiometric effect [35] once more forces Pt to the surface. Finally, for (dilute) disordered solutions of A in B, the (partial) release of the strain energy around the solute atoms in the bulk, causes the solute atoms to segregate to the surface,especially if they are larger than the atoms of the host matrix. In exactly stoichiometric ordered compounds, this elastic strain energy is negligible, as the lattice parameter of the compound has adjusted to the ordered stacking. In off-stoichiometric compounds, however, the excess atoms are subjected to some degree of strain. Partial release of this strain upon segregation again results in a tendency for Pt to segregate.
Experimental values of the surface energy for Pt and Co are 2475 and 2550 mJ/m2, respectively [36]. In view of this small difference, lowering of the surface energy contributes only slightly to the total segregation enthalpy. This tendency towards Pt segregation is however enhanced by the second (and the third) effect as there is an excess of Pt in Pt80Co20 with respect to stoichiometric Pt75Co25: 20% of the Co lattice sites are occupied by Pt atoms. The segregation of this excess Pt lowers
M.A. Vasylyev et al. / Applied Surface Science 253 (2006) 10811089
1087 Table 1 CBE parameters for the MC simulations on the Pt80Co20(1 1 1) alloy ePtPt (J/mol) 63147 eCoCo (J/mol) 65060 aPtCo (J/mol) 9334 Fig. 8. Orderdisorder transition for Pt3Co, obtained from MC/CBE simula- tions. The solid squares (&) represent the long-range order parameter (LRO) and the open squares (&) the short-range order parameter (SRO). The vertical line is drawn at the experimental orderdisorder transition tempera- ture [16].
Fig. 9. Surface composition profile as a function of temperature obtained from MC/CBE simulations compared to the experimental results (&). the total bond energy and possibly also the strain energy in the bulk.
The MC/CBE simulation results for the surface composition are plotted as a function of temperature in Fig. 9. Both the experiments and the MC simulations produce evidence for an exothermic segregation behavior, which causes the surface enrichment to become less at higher temperatures. At lower temperatures, a surface composition of 100% Pt is observed in the IS experiments and this is confirmed by MC simulations.
Also at 673 and 973 K, the simulated surface composition is in good agreement with the experimental observations. However,the segregation enrichment as a function of temperature varies more gradually in the MC simulations than in the experimental results. As strain cannot straightforwardly be incorporated in the CBE model, a more powerful energy model that explicitly accounts for the influence of the interatomic distances on the bond energies is necessary to yield a more reliable estimation of the strain effect.
As far as the concentration in the subsurface layers is concerned, Fig. 10 shows the results of the MC simulations.
Considerable differences between the simulations and the experiments are observed for the second and third atomic layers. At lower temperatures, kinetic restrictions can be expected for the high melting components Pt and Co, thereby causing
MC
simulations (equilibrium) and experiments (kinetically limited) to diverge. These kinetic considerations,however, cannot account for all discrepancies.
In this context, it is interesting to compare the segregation behavior to the (1 1 1) surface of three Pt80M20 (M = Fe, Co, Ni) alloys. At moderate temperatures, the surface is driven towards a pure Pt layer, due to the off-stoichiometry. For the highly exothermic Pt80Fe20 alloy (Tc (Pt3Fe) = 1623 K), a monotonous segregation profile is reported in literature [25],whereas the less exothermic Pt78Ni22 alloy shows a strongly oscillating concentration depth profile [37]. As the Pt80Co20 alloy has an intermediate Tc, it can be expected to also behave in an intermediate manner. The MC/CBE simulations indeed show a slightly oscillating depth profile which is, however, in contrast to the strong oscillations found in the experiments. The discrepancy between MC/CBE simulations and the experi- mental results must be ascribed to driving forces that are not included in the CBE model. Beside strain energy, also considerable magnetic interactions are present in the Pt80Co20 system. These magnetic interactions introduce a positive energy of mixing which drives the system towards clustering of the magnetic species [38]. By studying Pt75Co25 films, Rooney et al. [38] indeed observed a significant increase of the Curie- temperature by more than 200 K, which could only be the consequence of significant Co clustering, presumably driven by magnetic energy.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 