<quotes>
The model reactions of ethylene polymerization and hydrogenolysis of linear alkanes (propane, n-butane, and n-pentane) on the silica-supported zirconium hydrides (BSiAO)3ZrIVH, (BSiAO)2ZrIVH2, and (BSiAO)2ZrIIIH were studied using the DFT approach. Catalytic processes under study were shown to occur involving different surface hydrides. The ethylene polymerization was found to proceed at comparable rates on the zirconium monohydrides, (BSiAO)3ZrH, and dihydrides, (BSiAO)2ZrH2.

Cleavage of linear alkanes on the monohydrides (BSiAO)3ZrH is thermodynamically unfavorable; however, the dihydrides (BSiAO)2ZrH2 can act as catalysts of the process under mild conditions. Hydrides of the trivalent zirconium, (BSiAO)2ZrIIIH, can also contribute to the hydrogenolysis reaction. A feature of all the systems studied is low regioselectivity of the corresponding processes.

Among such processes are the olefin polymerization [17], hydrogenation of olefins [8], isotope exchange in alkanes [9], as well as hydroisomerization and hydrog- enolysis of alkanes [1014].

The unique ability of these systems to catalyze both processes depending on the presence of hydrogen in the system was rationalized. Three types of catalytic species have been studied, all of them, (BSiAO)3ZrIVH, (BSiAO)2ZrIVH2, and (BSiAO)2ZrIIIH, being observed experimentally [2, 4 8, 16].

The rates of ethylene polymerizations on the monohydrides (BSiAO)3ZrH and dihydrides (BSiAO)2ZrH2 were found to be of the same order of magnitude. Since the amount of monohydrides (BSiAO)3ZrH present in the system is always much larger than that of dihydrides, the former should be considered as the major catalytic species for the polymerization reaction.

Hydrogenolysis of linear alkanes on monohydrides (BSiAO)3ZrH is thermodynamically unfavorable. In contrast to this, the dihydrides (BSiAO)2ZrH2, which are present in the real catalytic systems (this was reliably proved earlier [4,8]), can act as the catalysts of hydrogenolysis of linear alkanes at the same temperatures as those reported in the experimental studies by Basset et al. [911].

Earlier [18], we have shown that the activation energy for isotope exchange in methane on zirconium hydrides reported in the experimental study by Hall et al. [9] is somewhat lower than the energy barrier to the reaction of dihydrides with the methane molecule obtained from our calculations (7 vs. 911 kcal mol)1, respectively).

Despite the fact that Basset et al. reliably proved that monohydrides (BSiAO)3ZrH were the major type of the surface metal hydrides in the samples of catalysts employed in their study [10], we believe that additional experimental investigations are required.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The silica-supported zirconium hydrides were studied for ethylene polymerization and hydrogenolysis of linear alkanes. The catalytic processes were found to occur through different surface hydrides. Ethylene polymerization occurred comparably on zirconium monohydrides and dihydrides. Hydrogenolysis of linear alkanes was thermodynamically unfavorable on monohydrides but could occur on dihydrides under mild conditions. Trivalent zirconium hydrides also contributed to the hydrogenolysis reaction.

2. The systems were capable of catalyzing both formation and cleavage of C-H bonds based on hydrogen presence. Three types of catalytic species were observed, including monohydrides, dihydrides, and trivalent hydrides. Monohydrides were the major catalysts for ethylene polymerization.

3. Hydrogenolysis of linear alkanes was thermodynamically unfavorable on monohydrides. Dihydrides, however, could act as catalysts for hydrogenolysis at similar temperatures to those reported in experimental studies by Basset et al.

4. The activation energy for isotope exchange in methane on zirconium hydrides was lower than that of dihydrides' reaction with methane, suggesting contributions from other reactive species.

5. Despite Basset et al.'s proof of monohydrides being the major surface metal hydrides, further experimental investigations are recommended for clarification.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 对于乙烯聚合和线性烷烃的氢解，使用二氧化硅支持的锆化物进行了研究。催化过程通过不同的表面氢化物发生。乙烯聚合在锆单氢化物和双氢化物上发生比较一致。线性烷烃的氢解在单氢化物上是热力学不利的，但在双氢化物上可以在温和条件下发生。三价锆化物也参与了氢解反应。

2. 这些系统能够根据氢的存在催化C-H键的形成和断裂。观察到了三种类型的催化剂物种，包括单氢化物、双氢化物和三价氢化物。单氢化物是乙烯聚合的主要催化剂。

3. 线性烷烃的氢解在单氢化物上是热力学不利的。然而，双氢化物可以在与Basset等人的实验研究中报告的相同温度下作为氢解线性烷烃的催化剂。

4. 在锆化物上进行的甲烷同位素交换的激活能低于双氢化物与甲烷的反应，这表明可能存在其他更活跃的物种。

5. 尽管Basset等人证明了单氢化物是主要的表面金属氢化物，但建议进行进一步的实验调查以澄清这一点。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
