element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
Help
Search
My account
View PDF
Download full issue
Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
Volume 311
, February 2021, 110684
Improved catalytic performance of CrOx catalysts supported on foamed Sn-modified alumina for propane dehydrogenation
Author links open overlay panel
Huaiqi Shao a
,
Xun Wang a
,
Xia Gu a
,
Delong Wang a
,
Tao Jiang a
,
Xiaoyan Guo b
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2020.110684
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
Foamed alumina modified by tin is prepared for supporting CrOx catalysts.
•
The adding tin increases the pore size and develops more complex cavity structure.
•
Doped and dispersed tin on surface change interaction between Cr and support.
•
Propane dehydrogenation performance is enhanced by using modified alumina as support.
•
Tin obviously inhibits formation of coke and increases catalyst stability.
Abstract
To better understand influences of surface properties of supports on distributed Cr active sites of Cr-based catalysts with high Cr loading, foamed alumina modified by Sn was prepared to support CrOx catalysts for propane dehydrogenation. N2 adsorption-desorption, TEM, XRD, FTIR, UV–vis, Raman, XPS, NH3-TPD, Py-IR and H2-TPR were carried out to elucidate catalyst structures. The foamable alumina is formed by using soft template, and tin added in preparing process changes micro-micelle formation to generate more complex cavity structure. The Sn doped into alumina framework and dispersed on support surface changes the surface properties, such as surface hydroxyl group and isoelectric point, promoting the formation of more active polymeric chromate on the surface, thus the CrOx supported on modified alumina presents high activity of propane dehydrogenation and good catalyst stability, comparing with unmodified CrOx/alumina catalyst. The added Sn obviously inhibits the formation of coke deposition due to decreased strong acid sites, Cr sites density and Cr3+ content on the surface of the catalysts.
Graphical abstract
Download: Download high-res image (316KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Previous article in issue
Next article in issue
Keywords
Propane dehydrogenationChromium oxideModified aluminaTin oxideCr active species
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.