<quotes>

[1] "Propylene is one of the most important building blocks in the petrochemical industry for the production of various chem-icals,1,2 such as polypropylene, propylene oxide, and acryloni-trile."
[2] "Propylene is commercially produced by steam cracking of naphtha and uidized catalytic cracking of heavy oil."
[3] "However,the imbalance between the continuously increasing propylene demand and the decreasing fossil oil reserves4 has become an obstacle to the development of the propylene markets, which stimulates the motivation to seek a more economical route for propylene production."
[4] "Among the commercially operated processes, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has been regarded as one of the most promising alternatives.5,6"
[5] "The PDH process converts low-cost saturated hydrocarbons into value-added olefins, which makes this route more economically competitive."
[6] "Moreover, the extensive exploitation of natural gas as a resource of propane guarantees the feasibility and low-cost of the PDH process.3"
[7] "However, the dehydrogenation of propane is an endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction, and a relatively high reaction temperature is required thermodynamically to obtain high yields of propylene."
[8] "Such reaction conditions will result in undesired thermal cracking that generates lighter hydrocarbons as well as notoriously rapid coke deposition causing catalyst deactivation."
[9] "Hence, it is of great significance to develop catalytic materials with high propylene selectivity and excellent anti-coking ability, as well as high propane conversion."
[10] "Currently, chromium- and platinum-based catalysts are the prevailing commercial catalysts for PDH."
[11] "Cr-based catalysts exhibit excellent catalytic performance and good anti-poisoning ability,3,4,8 but their application is limited by the toxicity of chromium."
[12] "Pt-based catalysts show high catalytic activity and thermal stability,2,7,9 and the coke formation rate is much lower than that of Cr-based catalysts."
[13] "However, many problems of Pt,such as significant catalyst deactivation caused by coke forma-tion10,11 and low propylene selectivity resulted from the gener-ation of lighter hydrocarbons via CC bond cleavage,12,13 constrain the catalytic performance and limit the catalytic effi-ciency of Pt catalysts."
[14] "The inhibited propylene adsorption diminishes the possibility of coke formation and suppresses the cracking reaction towards the formation of lighter hydrocarbons on PtCu/Al2O3, while a higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage suppresses the methane formation."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propene production, converting low-cost saturated hydrocarbons into value-added olefins. It is more economically competitive due to the extensive exploitation of natural gas as a resource of propane. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring a relatively high reaction temperature, which can result in undesired thermal cracking and rapid coke deposition, causing catalyst deactivation. Developing catalytic materials with high propylene selectivity, excellent anti-coking ability, and high propane conversion is crucial. Currently, chromium- and platinum-based catalysts are the prevailing commercial catalysts for PDH. Cr-based catalysts have excellent catalytic performance and good anti-poisoning ability, but their application is limited by the toxicity of chromium. Pt-based catalysts have high catalytic activity and thermal stability, with a lower coke formation rate than Cr-based catalysts. However, significant catalyst deactivation caused by coke formation and low propylene selectivity resulting from the generation of lighter hydrocarbons via CC bond cleavage constrain the catalytic performance and limit the catalytic efficiency of Pt catalysts. The inhibited propylene adsorption diminishes the possibility of coke formation and suppresses the cracking reaction towards the formation of lighter hydrocarbons on PtCu/Al2O3, while a higher energy barrier for CC bond cleavage suppresses the methane formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)是丙烯生产的一种有前途的方法，将低成本的饱和烃转化为高价值的烯烃。由于大量开采天然气作为丙烷资源，这一过程在经济上更具竞争力。然而，该过程是吸热和平衡受限的，需要相对较高的反应温度，这可能导致不希望的热裂解和快速焦炭沉积，导致催化剂失活。开发具有高丙烯选择性、优异的抗焦炭能力和高丙烷转化率的催化材料至关重要。目前，铬和铂基催化剂是PDH的主要商业催化剂。Cr基催化剂具有优异的催化性能和良好的抗中毒能力，但由于铬的毒性，其应用受到限制。Pt基催化剂具有高催化活性和热稳定性，焦炭形成率低于Cr基催化剂。然而，由于焦炭形成导致的显著催化剂失活和由于CC键断裂产生较轻的烃类而导致的低丙烯选择性限制了Pt催化剂的催化性能和催化效率。抑制丙烯吸附降低了焦炭形成的可能性，并抑制了向PtCu/Al2O3上较轻烃类的裂解反应，而较高的CC键断裂能垒抑制了甲烷的形成。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
