I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


344
J. H. SIXFELT
Hydrogenolysis of Ethane over Supported Platinum by J. H. Sinfelt E880 Research and Engineering Co., Linden, New Jersey (Received September 0, 1063) The hydrogenolysis of ethane over two supported platinum catalysts, one employing silica as a support and the other alumina, was investigated in a flow reactor over the temperature range of 343 to 401'.The rate of hydrogenolysis to methane was found to increase with ethane partial pressure to a power in the range 0.7 to 0.9. However, the rate was found to decrease markedly with increasing hydrogen pressure. This has been interpreted. in terms of a mechanism involving extensive dehydrogenation on the surface prior to a slow step in which carbon-carbon bonds are broken. The apparent activation energy of the reaction was found to be much higher over the silica-supported platinum, although the rates were not far different at the temperatures of this study. The difference in activation energies for the different supports suggests that the support interacts with platinum in some manner, and that silica differs from alumina with regard to such an interaction.The catalytic hydrogenolysis of ethane to methane has been studied over nickel, cobalt, and iron catalysts by Taylor and co-worker.- From the results of these studies it was postulated4 that the initial step in the reaction involved dehydrogenation to form un- saturated surface radicals, and that the hydrogen con- tent of the radicals varied with the metal.Since no data were reported for noble metal catalysts, it was decided to investigate the reaction over supported platinum. In addition, it was decided to investigate the effect of the support on the catalytic properties of the platinum, and hence studies were made with platinum supported on both alumina and silica. Al- though there is a widely held impressions that the sup- port does not interact with the metal in supported noble metal catalysts, data are presented here which refute this idea.Experimental The reaction rate meas- urements were carried out in a flow system at atmos- pheric pressure.The reactor was a stainless steel tube approximately 1.0 cm. in diameter and 8 cm. in length.The reactor was held in a vertical position and was sur- rounded by a small electrical oven. The catalyst was centered with respect to the ends of the reactor, oc- cupying a space approximately 1.5 to 4.0 cm. in length in the various runs. A fritted stainless steel disk was used to support the catalyst in the reactor, and qusrtz Apparatus an,d Procedure. wool was packed on top of the catalyst to hold it in place. A 3-mm. axial thermowell containing an iron- constantan thermocouple extended upward through the fritted steel disk into the catalyst bed, so that the tip o f the thermowell was located at the center of the cata- lyst bed. The reaction gases were passed downflow through the catalyst bed, and the products were ana- lyzed by a chromatographic unit coupled directly to the outlet o f
the reactor.
The chromatographic column was 2 m. in length and 0.6 cm. in diameter.
The column was packed with 100 mesh silica gel and was operated at 40'.Helium was used as a carrier gas, and a thermal conductivity detector was used with the column.The reactant gases, ethane and hydrogen, were passed over the catalyst in the presence of helium diluent.Gas flow rates were measured using orifice-type flow meters with manometers.A total gas flow rate o f 1 l./ min. was used throughout. The run procedure con- sisted of passing the reactant gases over the catalyst for a period of 3 min., at which time a sample of the
(1) (2) (3) (4)
K. Morikawa, W. S.
Benedict, and H. S.
Taylor, J .  Am. Chem.
Soc., 58, 1796 (1936).
E. H. Taylor and 13. S.
Taylor, ibid., 61, 503 (1939).
C. Kemball and H. S.
Taylor, ibid., 70, 345 (1948).
A. Cimino, M. Boudart, and H. %,Taylor, J .  Phys. Chem., 58,
796 (1954). 6) G. C. Bond, "Catalysis by Metals," Academic Press, Inc..
London, 1962, p. 40.
The Journal of Physical Chenkistry
HYDROGENOLYSIS
O F  ETHANE
OVER SUPPORTED PLAT
[NUM
345 product was taken for chromatographic analysis.
The ethane was then cut out and hydrogen flow was continued for a period of 10 min. at the reaction tem- perature prior to another run. In this way, it was pos- sible to minimize variation in catalyst activity from period to period. As an additional insurance against the complica Lions due to varying catalyst activity,measurements at any given set of conditions were in most cases bracketed with runs at a standard set of conditions. In this way, the effect of changing a variable can be determined by coimparison with the standard condition periods run immediately before and after the period in question. Before any reaction studies were made, the catalyst was pretreated in flowing hydrogen for 3 hr. at 500".
Materials. The ethane used in this work was ob- tained from the Matheson Co. A chromatographjc analysis of the ethane showed no detectable hydro- carbon impurities. It is estimated that a hydrocarbon impurity, e.g., methane, would have been detected by the chromatographic analysis if it were present at a concentration above 0.01 wt. %. High purity hydro- gen was obtained from the Linde Co. and was further purified by passing it through a Deoxo unit containing palladium catalyst to remove traces of oxygen as water,prior to passage through a molecular sieve dryer.
The platinuim catalysts used in this work were sup- ported on either silica or alumina. The platinum con- tent of the catslysts was 0.60% by weight. The cata- lysts mere prepared by impregnation of silica or alumina with aqueous chloroplatinic acid, followed by calcina- tion in air. The Pt/SiOz catalyst was calcined at 538" for 1 hr., whiile the Pt/A1203 was calcined at 593" for 4 hr. Thc silica and alumina were prepared by heating either silica gel or p-alumina trihydrate, both obtained from Davison Chemical Co., for 4 hr. at 538 or 593", respectively. The B.E.T. surface areas of the silica and alumina were 388 and 296 m.2/g., respec- tively. X-Ray diffraction measurements obtained in these laboralories indicated the alumina to be 7-alu- mina.
Results In studying the kinetics of the hydrogenolysis of ethane to methane, the approach taken was to measure initial rates of reaction at low conversion levels (0.05 to 5.9%). Thle reaction rate r is defined by the rela- tion
F
= w" where F represents the feed rate of ethane to the re-. actor in g. moles/hr., W represents the weight in grams u
0.30
ob i h - .
c \ +
0.10
6
M
a
U
d
0.03
I
1 1
1.52
1.56
1.
60
1.64
I
'
Orno' 1.48
1000/T,'
( O K .
Figure 1. Effect of temperature on the rate of hydrogenoly3is of ethane; Hs pressure = 0.20 atm.; CzHs pressure = 0.030 atm. of platinum on the catalyst charged to the reactor, and x represents the fraction of the ethane converted to methane.
Data on the effect of temperature on rates for both the Pt/SiOz and Pt/A1,03 catalysts .are shown in the Arrhenius plots in Fig. 1. From the slopes of these plots, the apparent activation energies of the ethane hydrogenolysis reaction over the Pt/Si02 and Pt/AlZO3 catalysts are 54 and 31 kcal./mole, respectively.
Rate data showing the effects of hydrogen and ethane partial pressures, PH and PE) respectively, are sum- marized in Table I in the form of a ratio r/ro, where r is the rate at any given conditions and ro is the rate at a standard set of conditions ( p
= 0.20 atm., p E  :=
0.030 atm.). The rate measurements at conditions
different from the standard were bracketed by rate de- terminations at the standard conditions. Each r/ro value in Table I was obtained by dividing the rate de- termined in a given reaction period at a particular set of conditions by the average of the rate determi- nations at the standard conditions immediately before and after the given reaction period. This procedure served to minimize the effects of varying catalyst activity. While the variation in activity during any one reaction period was generally not large (10-2075 at most), the cumulative activity decline over an extended period of time could have led to erroneous conclusions about the kinetics if the above procedure had not been adopted.
Volume 68, ivumber 2 Februaru, 1961 346
J. H. SINFELT
- Table I : Function of CzHe and HP Partial Pressures Relative Rates of CzHs Hydrogenolysis as a
PH
1
PE
2 Catalyst atm. atm. r/?oa Pt/SiOt (377") 0 . 1 0
0.030
3 . 3 0 . 2 0
0.030
1 .o
0.60
0 030
0.12
0.20
0 0050 0 . 2 1
0.20
0.010
0 . 3 7 0 . 2 0 0 030 1 .o
0.20
0.100
2 . 6 Pt/AlzOa (366") 0 . 1 0
0.030
2 . 6 0 . 2 0 0,030 1 . 0
0.40
0.030
0.24
0 . 2 0
0.0050
0.27
0 . 2 0 0,010 0 . 4 7
0.20
0,030 1 .o
0.20
0,100 2 1 a Rate relative to the rate at the standadconditions ( p
=
0.20 a h . ,
p = 0.030 atm.) for the particular cat'alyst and tem- perature in question; the r/rO values cannot be used by thern- selves to compare the activities of the catalysts.For both the Pt/SiOz and the Pt/AlzOa catalysts, the data in Table I show that the rate of ethane hydrogen- olysis increases with increasing ethane partial pressure,but decreases markedly with increasing hydrogen partial pressure.The dependence of the rate on the partial pressures of ethane and hydrogen can be expressed as a simple power law, r = kpE"pHm.
Approximate values of the exponents n and m as derived from the experimental data are summarized below.
Catalyst n m Pt/Si02 (377") 0 9 -1 8 Pt/AlzOa (366") 0 7 -1 7 These results can be accounted for satisfactorily by the mechanism proposed by Cimino, Boudart, and Tay10r.
According to these authors, ethane hydrogenolysis over metals involves the reaction steps Ci" J_ CzH, + aH,
H
2
CzH, + H z
--+ CH, + CH, --+ CH,
where x,y, and x are integers and a is equal to (6 - x ) / 2  by stoichiometry.
The species C2H,represents an adsorbed dehydrogenated radical which reacts with a molecule of hydrogen to form the surface fragments CH, and CH,. The latter are hydrogenated off the surface to form methane. By postulating that the initial dehydrogenation step was an equilibrated re- action and that the cracking of C2H, in the second step mas rate controlling, the authors derived an approxi- mate rate law of the form where 0 < n < 1. Taking the experimental values of n for the Pt/Si02 and Pt/A1203 catalysts, and assuming a value for a, we can calculate the exponent (1 - nu) of p and compare with m, the experimental value.The best agreement is obtained if we assume a = 3,in which case the calculated exponents of p for the Pt/SiOz and Pt/A120, catalysts are, respectively, -
1.7
and -
1.1, which are to be compared with the cor-
responding experimental m values of -
1.8 and -
1.7.
The agreement is good for the Pt/SiOz catalyst but only fair for the Pt/Al2O3 catalyst.
Discussion On the whole, we conclude that the kinetic formula- tion of Cimino, Boudart, and Taylor accounts satis- factorily for the results on ethane hydrogenolysis over supported platinum.
The most interesting finding of the present study is the marked difference in the apparent activation energy for the two platinum catalysts studied. While the degree of dispersion of the platinum may be different on alumina and silica, the difference in apparent acti- vation energies cannot be rationalized readily on the basis of a difference in platinum surface areas alone,since this would be expected to affect only the magni- tudes of the rates rather than the temperature depend- ence. It seems more likely that some specific inter- action between platinum and support is involved. The widely held impression5 that supports do not interact with noble metals is thus open to considerable question.
The Journal of Physical Chemistru


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, contribute to the chemical industry in terms of their applications and market trends, and what are the key production methods and thermodynamic challenges associated with their synthesis, particularly in relation to temperature, pressure, and alkane chain length effects?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 