I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Effect of oxide support surface area on hydrogenation activity: Pt/Ni bimetallic catalysts supported on low and high surface area Al2O3 and ZrO2 Abstract Catalyst characterization and batch reactor studies have been performed to better understand the effects of oxide support and support surface area on low-temperature 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation over supported PtNi bimetallic catalysts. The supports studied in this work are: α-Al2O3 (1016 m2/g), γ-Al2O3 (80120 m2/g), low surface area ZrO2 (2030 m2/g), and high surface area ZrO2 (100200 m2/g). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) were used to characterize the particle size and the extent of PtNi bimetallic bond formation, respectively. The bimetallic catalysts supported on the two low surface area supports show larger metal nanoparticles; however, these catalysts also display greater extent of bimetallic bond formation, as characterized by the Pt LIII-edge EXAFS. After normalizing the hydrogenation rate constants for the two alumina-supported catalysts by the CO uptake values, the two rate constants appear very similar, suggesting that the bimetallic nanoparticles have similar structures on the alumina supports. In contrast, normalizing the hydrogenation rate constants for the two zirconia catalysts reveals that the catalyst supported on the high surface area zirconia is approximately twenty times less active, suggesting a strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) between the metal nanoparticles and the high surface area zirconia support.
Graphical abstract Download: Download high-res image (99KB) Download: Download full-size image Highlights Low-temperature 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation occurs on PtNi bimetallic catalysts supported on Al2O3 and ZrO2.  Nature of oxide support influences hydrogenation activity.  PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 is twenty times less active than PtNi/LSA-ZrO2.  Characterization suggests low activity on PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 may be due to the SMSI effect.
1. Introduction
The hydrothermal stability of a catalyst support is an important consideration in the design of catalysts for aqueous phase reforming (APR) processes, which have been proposed as a means to convert biomass-derived oxygenated molecules into a renewable source of hydrogen [1] . Zirconia is reported to exhibit higher hydrothermal stability than many other oxide supports such as silica or ceria [2] . It is well known that the activity of metal nanoparticles can be affected by the catalyst support. The goal of the current work is to investigate the effects of oxide support and support surface area on the catalytic activity of Pt/Ni bimetallic catalysts supported on zirconia with low and high surface areas. For the purpose of comparison, similar comparative studies are performed on one of the most commonly used supports, alumina (α-Al2O3 and γ-Al2O3), using the low-temperature hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene as a probe reaction.
Pt/Ni bimetallic catalysts are of significant interest because recent fundamental studies have shown that Pt/Ni systems can display novel catalytic activity [3] ,[4] ,[5] . Two Pt/Ni monolayer bimetallic surfaces of interest are the Pt-terminated configuration, PtNiPt(1 1 1), and Ni-terminated structure, NiPtPt(1 1 1), in which a monolayer of Ni atoms resides in either the subsurface or surface region, respectively. These surfaces have been prepared and characterized under surface science conditions, and it has been found that their properties differ distinctly from either monometallic surface and from each other [5] . Novel low-temperature hydrogenation activity is observed over the PtNiPt(1 1 1) configuration and is attributed to the fact that the PtNiPt(1 1 1) surface binds atomic hydrogen and alkenes more weakly than NiPtPt(1 1 1) and monometallic surfaces [3] . In contrast, the NiPtPt(1 1 1) surface binds adsorbates more strongly than PtNiPt(1 1 1) and monometallic surfaces [4] , resulting in the enhanced activity of the NiPtPt(1 1 1) surface towards the reforming of oxygenates, such as ethylene glycol and glycerol to produce H2. The binding energies of adsorbates on these surfaces have been found to correlate with the location of the surface d-band center in reference to the Fermi level [6] , as calculated by density functional theory (DFT). This signifies that the electronic modification due to bimetallic formation directly affects the binding strength of adsorbates, and in turn, catalytic activity.
The thermodynamic stability of these Pt/Ni surface configurations is also of interest because both computational and experimental studies have shown that the Ni monolayer can migrate in the presence of adsorbates. In the presence of adsorbed atomic hydrogen, the PtNiPt(1 1 1) surface is thermodynamically stable [7] , whereas in the presence of adsorbed oxygen, Ni segregates to the surface to form the NiPtPt(1 1 1) structure [8] . Such surface reconfiguration has been observed experimentally on single crystal surfaces, polycrystalline films [9] , as well as supported nanoparticles [10] . Experimental studies show that the activation barrier for the transition between the Pt- and Ni-terminated configurations is relatively low, 15 kcal/mol [8] , implying that the transformation can take place at temperatures relevant to calcination, reduction, or reaction during synthesis and testing of supported catalysts.
Characterization results from a previous study on γ-Al2O3-supported Pt/Ni bimetallic catalysts suggest that the bimetallic catalyst nanoparticles exhibit a structure with Pt residing on the top-most surface, which closely resembles the Pt-terminated model surface identified in surface science studies [11] . The hydrogenation activity of supported Pt/Ni catalysts was also measured, which showed that both benzene and 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation activity correlated well with the extent of PtNi bimetallic bond formation obtained from extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) measurements. These results provide evidence for the bridging of the pressure and materials gaps for Pt/Ni bimetallic catalysts between model surfaces and γ-Al2O3-supported catalysts.
Similar to the previous study, 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation is used as a probe reaction to test for low-temperature hydrogenation activity. In addition to using 1,3-butadiene as a probe molecule to determine the effect of oxide supports, the low-temperature hydrogenation of this molecule is also of practical importance. For example, in steam cracking of naphtha, used to produce ethylene and butene for polymerization, alkadienes, such as 1,3-butadiene, are also produced as undesired byproducts [12] . The alkadienes can poison the polymerization catalysts. Therefore, it is important to remove them via selective hydrogenation [13] . Pd catalysts are the industrial standard for the selective hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene to butenes and have been studied thoroughly in literature [13] ,[14] ,[15] ,[16] ,[17] .
2. Experimental
2.1. Catalyst preparation
Pt/Ni bimetallic catalysts were synthesized on four oxide supports: α-Al2O3 (Alfa Aesar, 1016 m2/g), γ-Al2O3 (Alfa Aesar, 80120 m2/g), low surface area ZrO2 (Alfa Aesar, 2030 m2/g), and high surface area ZrO2 (Alfa Aesar, 100200 m2/g). The low and high surface area zirconia supports will be denoted LSA-ZrO2 and HSA-ZrO2, respectively. Pt(NH3)4(NO3)2 (Alfa Aesar) and Ni(NO3)2·6H2O (Alfa Aesar) precursor salts were utilized to prepare the precursor solutions that were used for catalyst synthesis. Previous studies on Pt/Ni/γ-Al2O3 catalysts suggested that in comparison to sequential impregnations of the two metal precursors, a co-impregnated synthesis resulted in the greatest extent of PtNi bimetallic bond formation [11] ; therefore, both precursor salts were added to the synthesis solutions in this study in order to allow for co-impregnated syntheses. Incipient wetness impregnation was used to synthesize the catalysts on high surface area supports, while evaporative deposition was used on low surface area supports due to the fact that the desired metal loading could not be achieved through a single incipient wetness impregnation. Evaporative deposition was performed by preparing a slurry of support, precursor, and water. The amounts of precursor and support were determined based on the desired metal loading, and 15 mL of water was used for each gram of catalyst. The slurry was left to mix overnight on a stir plate, after which the slurry was placed in a drying oven at 363 K in order to slowly evaporate the excess water. Regardless of synthesis method, all catalysts were dried for 10 h at 373 K and then calcined at 563 K for 2 h. A heating rate of 25 K/h was employed to heat from room temperature to 373 K, and a rate of 50 K/h was used to heat from 373 K to 563 K.
2.2. Catalyst characterization
2.2.1. Pulse CO chemisorption
Pulse carbon monoxide (CO) chemisorption was performed to obtain CO uptake (μmol CO/g cat) values in order to quantitatively compare metal surface areas. Pulse CO chemisorption measurements were collected using an AMI-200ip (Altamira Instruments). Measurements were performed by loading approximately 0.25 g of catalyst into a quartz U-tube reactor which was inserted into the AMI-200ip instrument. Catalysts were reduced under a hydrogenhelium mixture (50% H2/He) by heating from room temperature to 723 K at a rate of 15 K/min, and holding at 723 K for 1 h. Following reduction, the catalysts were cooled under a He flow, and pulse CO chemisorption was performed at room temperature using pulses of 20 cm3/min CO in a He carrier gas. The amount of CO leaving the quartz reactor after each pulse was measured using a thermal conductivity detector (TCD). A calibration loop of known volume was utilized to quantify the TCD signal. The metal dispersion was calculated from the pulse chemisorption measurements by assuming a stoichiometry of M:CO = 1:1 (M = Pt, Ni). Both CO uptake and metal dispersion are reported in this study. Due to the uncertainty in both the M:CO stoichiometry and the surface compositions of the bimetallic catalysts, the dispersion values listed may not be very meaningful but are listed to provide a relative ranking of metal dispersion.
2.2.2. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) imaging
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements were performed using a JEOL 2010F equipped with a Schottky field emission gun operated at 200 keV, with an ultra-high resolution pole piece providing a point resolution of 1.9 Å. The micrographs were collected in high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) mode in order to take advantage of the Z2 contrast provided by the mode. The images shown in this study were collected using a 20 nm camera length and a 0.5 nm diameter nanoprobe. Catalyst samples were prepared for imaging by grinding and suspending several mg of spent catalyst in several mL of ethanol. A pipette was then used to collect sample from the top of this suspension; two drops of this solution were then dropped onto a carbon-coated copper grid and allowed to dry before loading the sample into the TEM.
2.2.3. X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS)
X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements of the Pt LIII-edge were used to detect the formation of PtNi bimetallic bonds. The XAS experiments were conducted on the X18B and X19A beamlines at the National Synchrotron Light Source (NSLS), Brookhaven National Laboratory. XAS samples were prepared by pressing the oxide-supported catalysts into self-supported pellets using a 13 mm diameter pellet press and a force of 3 t. Sample masses were calculated in order to achieve samples with appropriate X-ray absorption to optimize the signal to noise ratio of the measurements [18] . The catalyst pellets were loaded into an in-house designed XAS cell which allows for simultaneous collection of both transmission and fluorescence signals before, during, and after in situ reduction. The catalysts were reduced by heating under a diluted hydrogen flow (5% H2/He, 40 sccm) to 723 K at a rate of 10 K/min. The samples were held at 723 K for 1 h before cooling to room temperature under the same diluted H2 flow.
XAS measurements were collected at room temperature using a double crystal Si(1 1 1) monochromator. Ionization chambers placed before and after the sample were used to measure the incident and transmitted X-ray signals, respectively. Additionally, the spectrum of a Pt foil was simultaneously collected with each sample so that the edge energies of the catalyst samples could be properly calibrated. The XAS measurements were collected in three energy regions, utilizing different step sizes and integration times within each region: the pre-edge region from 150 eV to 25 eV before the edge (5 eV step size, 1 s integration time), the near-edge (XANES) region from 25 eV before the edge to 40 eV past the edge (0.5 eV step size, 2 s integration time), and the post-edge (EXAFS) region from 40 eV to 18k (0.05k step size, 2 s integration time).
The X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) region was evaluated qualitatively to ensure that the catalysts were properly reduced. Quantitative analysis of the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) region was performed using the IFFEFIT 1.2.11 data analysis package (Athena, Artemis, Atoms, and FEFF6) [19] ,[20] . The Athena software was used to reduce the raw data by calibrating edge energies to foil standards, deglitching as needed, and merging multiple scans together to increase the signal to noise ratio. The AUTOBK algorithm included in Athena was used to remove the isolated-atom background function from the EXAFS. The background-subtracted EXAFS data was then k2-weighted and Fourier transformed into R-space using a Hanning window function with sill-width, dk = 2. The data was then transferred to Artemis, where local structural information was obtained by fitting each data set with theoretical standards generated by FEFF6 [21] . The theoretical phase shift and backscattering amplitude parameters were calculated for each possible neighbor type; and in doing so for the Pt LIII-edge, both PtPt and Pt3d interactions were taken into account for the bimetallic catalysts in order to determine the extent of each type of interaction within the sample. PtPt interactions were modeled by using a bulk fccPt crystal structure, while PtNi interactions were calculated using a modified version of the same fccPt structure in which the first nearest-neighbor shell of Pt atoms was replaced with Ni atoms. In fitting the EXAFS data, seven parameters were varied. These include the correction to the edge energy, the coordination numbers of the PtPt and PtNi bonds, corrections to their interatomic distances, and their mean-square deviations in interatomic distance (EXAFS DebyeWaller factors). Finally, the passive electron factor (S02), which was determined by fitting the Pt foil data, was found to be 0.85 and this value was held fixed in the fitting of all the catalysts.
2.2.4. X-ray diffraction (XRD)
X-ray diffraction was performed to determine the crystal phase of the low and high surface area zirconia support materials. XRD measurements were obtained using a Philips XPert X-ray diffractometer with a Cu Kα (λ = 1.5418 Å) monochromatic radiation source operated at 40 kV and 40 mA. Samples were scanned over a range of 2θ from 10 to 50 in the symmetric diffraction mode.
2.3. Catalyst evaluation
Batch reactor experiments were performed to evaluate the low-temperature hydrogenation activity of the bimetallic catalysts for 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy was used to follow the concentrations of gas-phase reactants and products during the reaction. The design of this in situ cell was based on that reported elsewhere in the literature [22] which allows for in situ reduction of catalysts and spectroscopic measurements of either surface adsorbates or gas-phase species. The cell consisted of a stainless steel high vacuum chamber (base pressure 106 Torr) fitted with BaF2 windows to allow the passage of IR light through the cell. The cell rested in the stage of a Thermo Nicolet Nexus 470 FTIR spectrometer equipped with a MCT-A (mercury cadmium telluride) detector capable of 4 cm1 resolution. A gas manifold, also maintained under vacuum conditions, was attached to the cell allowing for the introduction of gaseous species used in the experiments.
Catalysts were supported in the reactor cell by pressing the catalyst powder onto a tungsten mesh (1 cm × 2.4 cm, 100 mesh, 0.025 cm wire diameter, Alfa Aesar) at a force of 3 t. Prior to pressing the catalyst onto the mesh, K-type thermocouple wires were welded to the tungsten mesh to allow for the monitoring of the catalyst temperature during reduction and reaction. The sample and mesh was then attached to a nickel mounting bracket connected at the end of a z-translating manipulator with a ceramic vacuum feedthrough. The feedthrough provided both heating and thermocouple leads which were connected to the nickel mounting bracket and thermocouple wires, respectively, allowing for the controlled resistive heating of the sample through the tungsten mesh.
In performing each reaction experiment, 25 mg of supported catalyst was loaded into the IR cell as described above. After loading the catalyst but before each experiment, the system was evacuated to a pressure below 106 Torr for at least 1 h in order to remove water and other impurities. The catalyst was then reduced by ramping the sample temperature to 723 K at a rate of 15 K/min in the presence of 30 Torr of H2, and held at 723 K for 0.5 h before cooling to room temperature. After cooling in the presence of H2, the cell was evacuated and the catalyst was flashed to 723 K to remove any surface adsorbates generated during reduction. This reduction and flash sequence was repeated three times before performing batch reactor studies to ensure complete reduction of the catalyst. 1,3-butadine hydrogenation was performed in this system by introducing the reactants into the reactor cell through the gas manifold, and the purity of the IR-active molecules was verified in situ prior to experimentation by comparing the IR spectra with standard references reported in literature [23] . Extinction coefficients for all IR-active gas-phase species were determined by calibrating characteristic IR peaks as a function of the concentration of each molecule. The intensities of the characteristic peaks were measured at a number of pressures in a range relevant to the reaction. Using the volume of the reactor cell and the ideal gas law, gas-phase concentrations were calculated using the pressure-intensity calibrations obtained for each molecule.
Before initiating reactions, a baseline spectrum of the evacuated reactor cell was collected for 10 min. During baseline collection, the reactant species were premixed at room temperature within the gas manifold. After collecting the baseline, the reaction was initiated by quickly dosing the reactant gas mixture into the IR cell while holding the catalyst at the reaction temperature. During baseline collection and reaction, gas-phase species were monitored by collecting IR spectra (32 scans) every 30 s. Low-temperature 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation was performed at 308 K with an initial H2:C4H6 ratio of 2.2:1, and a total reaction pressure of 13 Torr. The CCCC stretching mode at 1586 cm1 was used to follow the concentration of 1,3-butadine as the reaction proceeded. 1-butene was the only butene produced under these reaction conditions. No peaks corresponding to cis-2-butene (specifically the CCCC stretching mode at 1533 cm1) were observed, suggesting the absence of trans-2-butene since it would be expected that the two isomers would be in thermodynamic equilibrium. Therefore, in the absence of 2-butenes, the CC stretching mode at 1655 cm1 was attributed solely to 1-butene, and used to calculate its concentration. Due to peak overlap with 1-butene at 1466 cm1 (CH3 deformation), the concentration of n-butane could not be directly determined. Instead it was estimated by calculating the intensity of 1-butene at 1466 cm1 and subtracting that from the total intensity at 1466 cm1, resulting in the intensity corresponding to n-butane. This calculation is summarized in the following equation:(1) where Ix is the intensity of species x, and Cx is the calculated concentration of species x. The term is the sensitivity factor for the contribution of 1-butene to the 1466 cm1 feature. A gas-phase carbon balance was obtained for all reactions reported here and further confirmed the lack of cis- or trans-2-butene during the reactions.
3. Results
3.1. CO chemisorption measurements
CO uptake and metal dispersion values obtained from pulse CO chemisorption experiments are presented in Table 1 . The Pt/Ni bimetallic catalysts supported on α-Al2O3, γ-Al2O3, and HSA-ZrO2 exhibit similar CO uptake, while PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 shows the least CO uptake. The CO uptake of the four bimetallic catalysts follows the trend: LSA-ZrO2  α-Al2O3 < γ-Al2O3 < HSA-ZrO2. As mentioned previously, the dispersion values may not be physically meaningful because of the uncertainty both in M:CO stoichiometry and in the bimetallic surface composition.Table 1. Catalyst compositions, nomenclature, and pulse CO chemisorption results.Catalyst Atomic ratio (Pt:Ni) Nomenclature CO uptake (μmol CO/g cat) Dispersion from Chemisorption (%)
1.7%Pt-1.5%Ni/α-A12O3 1:3 PtNi/a-Al2O3 40.9 25.2
1.7%Pt-1.5%Ni/γ-A12O3 1:3 PtNi/y-Al2O3 44.4 27.3
1.7%Pt-1.5%Ni/LS A-ZrO2 1:3 PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 18.7 11.5
1.7%Pt-1.5%Ni/HS A-ZrO2 1:3 PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 47.1 29.0
3.2. TEM imagining
High angle annular dark field (HAADF) TEM images are presented in Fig. 1 for the PtNi/α-Al2O3, PtNi/LSA-ZrO2, and PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalysts. The α-Al2O3-supported catalyst in Fig. 1 (a) contains a broad range of particle sizes, ranging from 1 nm up to at least 15 nm. In comparison in Fig. 1 (b) the γ-Al2O3-supported catalyst shows a narrower particle size distribution, with most particles being in the range of 13 nm. This difference in particle size is to be expected because on a high surface area support, there is more area over which the same amount of metal can be distributed, allowing for a higher dispersion. Inspecting the two zirconia-supported catalysts in Fig. 1 (c) and (d) reveals that PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 shows a bimodal size distribution, while the PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalyst shows a very narrow particle size distribution. The PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 catalyst shows a number of very small particles on the order of 1 nm in addition to larger particles ranging from approximately 8 to 15 nm.
Download: Download high-res image (2MB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. HAADF TEM images of (a) PtNi/α-Al2O3, (b) PtNi/γ-Al2O3, (c) PtNi/LSA-ZrO2, and (d) PtNi/HSA-ZrO2.
3.3. XANES and EXAFS results
Fig. 2 presents the Pt LIII-edge XANES spectra collected for the series of bimetallic catalysts supported on alumina and zirconia. Prior to reduction in hydrogen, all the catalysts exhibit white line features indicating that Pt is in an oxidized state. After reduction, the white line intensity decreases and is similar to the Pt foil spectrum, indicating that the Pt in these catalysts is in the metallic state. The reduction of the Pt is also corroborated in Fig. 3 , which shows the Fourier transformed EXAFS data before and after reduction. This figure shows the disappearance of PtO features at low radial distribution (R < 2 Å) as a result of reduction, as well as the appearance of PtM (M = Pt or Ni) features at slightly larger radial distribution (2 < R < 3 Å).Download: Download high-res image (248KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. Pt LIII-edge XANES spectra before and after reduction for the PtNi bimetallic catalysts supported on alumina and zirconia; the spectrum of a Pt foil is included as a reference for metallic Pt.Download: Download high-res image (239KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. Fourier transformed (magnitude) k2-weighted EXAFS function (χ(k)) of Pt LIII-edge before and after reduction for the PtNi bimetallic catalysts supported on alumina and zirconia; the Fourier transformed Pt foil is also shown for comparison.The Fourier transformed EXAFS results after reduction and fits to the first coordination shell are shown in Fig. 4 . The fits were obtained using FEFF6 theory [21] . The fitting results are presented in Table 2 . In order to achieve acceptable fits, it was necessary to include both PtPt and PtNi contributions.Table 2 reveals that bimetallic PtNi bonds are formed in all four catalysts, as evidenced by the PtNi interatomic distances which fall in between the bulk values of 2.49 Å and 2.77 Å for Ni and Pt, respectively. From the fitting results listed in Table 2 , the absolute extent of bimetallic bond formation (N(PtNi)) follows the trend PtNi/α-Al2O3  PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 > PtNi/γ-Al2O3  PtNi/HSA-ZrO2, indicating that more bimetallic bonds are formed in the catalysts on low surface area supports. Alternatively, the relative extent of bimetallic bond formation can be calculated as the ratio of bimetallic to monometallic coordination numbers (N(PtNi):N(PtPt)), and results in the following trend: PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 > PtNi/LSA-ZrO2  PtNi/α-Al2O3 > PtNi/γ-Al2O3. The relative extent of bimetallic bond formation in the PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalyst is the greatest due to its very small PtPt coordination number, indicating that almost all Pt atoms in this catalyst are coordinated with Ni, and that there may not be a Pt core. This suggests that the HSA-ZrO2 support may be influencing metal distribution or particle morphology through a strong metal-support interaction (SMSI).Download: Download high-res image (215KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. Fourier transformed (magnitude) k2-weighted EXAFS function (χ(k)) of Pt LIII-edge and first shell fits for PtNi bimetallic catalysts supported on alumina and zirconia; transformed data and fits are shown as dashed and solid lines, respectively.Table 2. Summary of Pt LIII-edge fitting.Catalyst N(PtPt) N(PtNi) R(PtPt) Å R(PtNi) Å σ2(PtPt) Å2 σ2(PtNi) Å2 PtNi/α-Al2O3 3.2  0.6 5.5  0.4 2.70  0.01 2.57  0.01 0.006  0.001 0.008  0.001 PtNi/γ-Al2O3 5.7  0.9 3.2  0.5 2.72  0.01 2.58  0.01 0.007  0.001 0.010  0.001 PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 3.1   1.1 5.8  0.6 2.71  0.01 2.56  0.01 0.007  0.001 0.007  0.001 PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 0.6  0.5 3.7  0.4 2.65  0.01 2.50  0.01 0.002  0.004 0.009  0.001
3.4. XRD of ZrO2
The XRD patterns for the PtNi/ZrO2 catalysts after calcination are shown in Fig. 5 . Before reduction at 723 K, the LSA-ZrO2 support is in the monoclinic phase while the HSA-ZrO2 support appears to be amorphous (due to the lack of any distinct features and the very broad peak centered at approximately 2θ = 24). After reduction in H2 at 723 K, no phase change is observed for the LSA-ZrO2, which is to be expected since the monoclinic phase is known to be stable up to 1473 K [24] . Conversely, the HSA-ZrO2 displays peaks indicating the formation of the tetragonal phase ZrO2 during reduction. The observed phase change is in agreement with the work of Jung and Bell that shows an amorphous to tetragonal phase transformation occurs between 573 and 673 K [25] . Even though the monoclinic phase is the thermodynamically stable phase at temperatures below 1473 K, a metastable tetragonal phase is known to be stable up to 923 K [24] .
Download: Download high-res image (232KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. XRD patterns for PtNi bimetallic catalysts supported on two zirconia supports after calcination and reduction.
3.5. FTIR batch reactor studies
Fig. 6 compares the batch reactor results for the hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene over the four supported bimetallic catalysts.
Fig. 6 (a, b, and c) shows the consumption of 1,3-butadiene, the production and subsequent consumption of 1-butene, and the production of n-butane, respectively.
Fig. 6 (a) also includes fits to the 1,3-butadiene concentration obtained assuming first-order kinetics in 1,3-butadiene. The rate constants are compared in Table 3 based on both the mass of the catalyst and the CO uptake obtained from pulse CO chemisorption. On a mass basis, the rate constants follow the trend: PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 < PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 < PtNi/α-Al2O3 < PtNi/γ-Al2O3. Normalizing with the CO uptake the activity trend is: PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 < PtNi/LSA-ZrO2  PtNi/γ-Al2O3  PtNi/α-Al2O3. These normalized rate constants demonstrate that the bimetallic catalysts supported on both alumina supports and the LSA-ZrO2 all display similar hydrogenation activity, which suggests the presence of similar bimetallic active sites on these catalysts. However, the normalized rate constant for the PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalyst is about 20 times less active than that of PtNi/LSA-ZrO2, demonstrating a significant effect of the HSA-ZrO2support on the metal nanoparticles.Download: Download high-res image (628KB) Download: Download full-size image Fig. 6. Consumption of 1,3-butadiene (a), production and consumption of 1-butene (b), and production of n-butane (c) during the hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene at 308 K for the PtNi bimetallic catalysts supported on alumina and zirconia.Table 3. First-order consumption rate constants for the hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene over supported bimetallic catalysts. Rate constants are listed both per catalyst mass and normalized with the CO uptake.Catalyst 1,3-butadiene k (min1 g cat1) 1,3-butadiene k (normalized to CO uptake, min1 μmol CO1) PtNi/a-Al2O3 3.3 8.1 × 102 PtNi/y-Al2O3 3.8 8.6 × 102 PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 1.0 5.3 × 102 PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 0.1 2.1 × 103 For comparison, the rate constants of the corresponding monometallic catalysts are also provided in Table 4 . On a catalyst mass basis, the bimetallic catalysts show hydrogenation rate constants that are greater than the sum of the rate constants for the corresponding monometallic catalysts. The only exception is on the HSA-ZrO2 support.Table 4. CO uptake and first-order consumption rate constants for the hydrogenation of 1,3-butadiene over supported monometallic catalysts. Rate constants are listed both per catalyst mass and normalized using CO uptake.Catalyst CO uptake (μmol CO/g cat) 1,3-butadiene k (min1 g cat1) 1,3-butadiene k (normalized to CO uptake, min1 μmol CO1) Pt/α-Al2O3 26.2 0.4 1.7 × 102 Ni/α-Al2O3 15.0 2.8 1.8 × 101 Pt/γ-Al2O3 45.0 1.5 3.4 × 102 Ni/γ-Al2O3 10.2 0.6 5.5 × 102 Pt/LSA-ZrO2 26.0 0.3 1.1 × 102 Ni/LSA-ZrO2 11.3 0.4 3.2 × 102 Pt/HSA-ZrO2 40.1 0.1 3.0 × 103 Ni/HSA-ZrO2 5.1 0.0 0
4. Discussion
The two alumina-supported catalysts show similar hydrogenation activity, based on catalyst mass and after normalizing with the number of actives sites. The TEM images in Fig. 1 and the chemisorption results in Table 1 indicate that the PtNi/α-Al2O3 catalyst exhibits slightly larger particles and a lower CO uptake than the PtNi/γ-Al2O3 catalyst. The EXAFS results in Table 2 show that the PtNi/α-Al2O3 catalyst exhibits a greater absolute extent of bimetallic bond formation than the PtNi/γ-Al2O3. This raises the question as to why the lower surface area alumina support allows for greater bimetallic bond formation. It is well known that γ-Al2O3 can form NiAl2O4 with Ni precursors during calcination [26] . These aluminates are not easily reduced, resulting in a portion of Ni that may not become activated during reduction at 723 K. The propensity of γ-Al2O3 to form aluminates has been attributed to its high density of grain boundaries which allow rapid diffusion of Ni into the spinel structure during calcination [27] . In contrast, the α-Al2O3support has a lower density of grain boundaries [27] , and thus, fewer Ni atoms diffuse into the bulk during calcination and maybe available for catalysis. The formation of NiAl2O4 on γ-Al2O3may be responsible for the decreased extent of bimetallic bond formation compared to the α-Al2O3-supported catalyst. Overall, the similarity in the hydrogenation activity indicates that the surface area of alumina does not play a significant role in modifying the catalytic activity of the Pt/Ni bimetallic catalysts. This may suggest that the particle structure of PtNi/γ-Al2O3 catalysts [11] , consisting of a Pt-terminated surface with Ni underneath the surface, is also possibly present in the PtNi/α-Al2O3 catalyst.
The zirconia-supported catalysts, on the other hand, show significant differences between the low and high surface area supports. The Pt loadings in the two catalysts are estimated using the height of the edge-jump in the near edge region of the Pt L-edge, which is related to the concentration of Pt in the catalyst samples [28] . Similar edge-jump heights are detected for the two catalysts, indicating that the Pt concentrations are similar for the PtNi bimetallic catalysts supported on the LSA- and HSA-ZrO2. From the TEM images in Fig. 1 , the PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 catalyst exhibits a bimodal particle size distribution, with both small particles of 1 nm and larger ones between 8 and 15 nm. In comparison, the PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalyst displays a narrow particle size distribution on the order of 1 nm. The pulse CO chemisorption results in Table 1 show that the PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 catalyst has a lower CO uptake than PtNi/HSA-ZrO2, which can be attributed to the larger particles present in the PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 catalyst. One may expect that the catalyst containing smaller particles and possessing a higher CO uptake would have a greater activity; however, this is not the case. The PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 catalyst shows a greater hydrogenation activity than PtNi/HSA-ZrO2based on both per catalyst mass (a factor of 10) and per active site (a factor of 20). Although the amorphous to tetragonal phase transformation of the HSA-ZrO2 support ( Fig. 5 ), which is accompanied with a decrease in support surface area [25] , may trap some of the metal nanoparticles within the ZrO2 pores, this is unlikely the reason for the lower (at least per site) activity on the HSA-ZrO2-supported catalyst. Another possible reason for the low activity could be due to a lack of bimetallic bond formation; however, the EXAFS results of Table 2 clearly show that bimetallic bonds form in the PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalyst, though the absolute extent of bimetallic bond formation is less than that exhibited by the PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 catalyst.
The significant difference in normalized hydrogenation activity between the two zirconia-supported catalysts suggests that the presence of the SMSI effects, which have been identified for some reducible oxide supports [29] ,[30] , may play a role in the low activity of the PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalyst. AlthoughTiO2 is the most widely studied support material that displays SMSI effects, it has been suggested that ZrO2 can also exhibit SMSI effects [31] ,[32] . SMSI effects on TiO2 are observed after high temperature reduction in H2, resulting in suppressed chemisorption due to the presence of TiOx species on the metal surface [33] . In a study of Pt/ZrO2, Bitter et al. found that the SMSI state on monoclinic ZrO2 could be produced after reduction at 1125 K but not on reduction at 775 K [31] . In the current study, the XRD patterns in Fig. 5 indicate that the LSA-ZrO2 support is in the monoclinic phase, and because reduction was performed at 723 K, this catalyst is not expected to experience significant SMSI effects. On the other hand, the PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalyst may be in a SMSI state, leading to ZrOx species decorating the particle surfaces as described by Bitter et al.
[31] . ZrOx species on the metal surface may potentially block active sites for 1,3-butadiene hydrogenation, resulting in the low hydrogenation activity observed in this study.Another possible explanation for the low hydrogenation activity of PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 is related to the difference in the PtNi bond length, which is about 0.05 Å shorter than that of the other three bimetallic catalysts ( Table 2 ). As discussed by Mavrikakis et al.
[34] and Kitchin et al.
[35] , a change in the bond length should lead to a strain effect as well as a modification in the electronic orbital overlapping (ligand effect), both of which would result in a shift in the surface d-band center. Previous studies have demonstrated that the binding energy of 1,3-butadiene is related to the d-band center value of bimetallic surfaces [5] , which should in turn lead to differences in hydrogenation activity on PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 as compared to the other three bimetallic catalysts. Finally, the low PtPt coordination number of the PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalyst may indicate that there is no Pt core in nanoparticles and thus, the bimetallic character in the two catalysts may be different, leading to active site or sites of different activity.
5. Conclusions
PtNi bimetallic catalysts were synthesized and supported on low and high surface area Al2O3 and ZrO2 supports in order to study the effects of oxide support and support surface area. In the case of the alumina-supported catalysts, the α-Al2O3-supported bimetallic catalyst displayed a greater extent of bimetallic bond formation than the PtNi/γ-Al2O3 catalyst, as characterized by Pt LIII-edge EXAFS. After normalizing by the CO uptake, the activities of these two catalysts are comparable, suggesting that they possess similar active sites. More specifically both may possess a Pt-terminated configuration, as identified for γ-Al2O3-supported bimetallic catalysts in a previous study. For the zirconia-supported bimetallic catalysts, the low surface area PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 catalyst displays both greater absolute extent of bimetallic bond formation and considerably greater hydrogenation activity than the PtNi-HSA-ZrO2. The normalized hydrogenation activity of the PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 catalyst is similar to the two Al2O3-supported catalysts, suggesting a similar active site. However, the PtNi/HSA-ZrO2 catalyst shows a (per site) hydrogenation activity approximately 20 times less than that of the PtNi/LSA-ZrO2 catalyst. It is postulated that this lower activity is due to a strong metal-support interaction between the HSA-ZrO2 and the bimetallic catalysts leading to particles with no Pt core. While supports like ZrO2 and TiO2 are hydrothermally stable for biomass processing, their strong effects on metals may induce changes in catalytic activity that are currently difficult to predict.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do DFT calculations of surface d-band center and adsorbate binding energies for various C═C bond-containing molecules (including linear alkenes, cyclic hydrocarbons, and aromatics) on Pt-3d catalysts correlate with experimental observations from techniques such as TPD measurements, and how can this integrated theoretical and experimental approach be utilized to predict hydrogenation activity and inform the design of more efficient Pt-3d catalytic systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 