<quotes>
The global annual pro- pene market is estimated to reach 165 million tons by 2030 compared to 103 million in 2012. 

Nowadays, propene is mainly produced through steam (6065%) or fluid catalytic cracking (30%) of various oil fractions. However, these two processes cannot fulfill the demands for propene. 

PDH is one of the largest processes for on-purpose propene production and offers high propene selectivity. 

Regardless of the phase composition, two Zr cations located at an oxygen vacancy, i.e. coordinatively unsaturated Zr cations (Zrcus sites) having, nevertheless, different chemical environment in tetragonal and monoclinic ZrO2, were concluded to be responsible for homolytic breaking of CAH bonds in propane. 

Monoclinic ZrO2 showed, however, higher rate of propene formation and higher propene selectivity than ZrO2 stabilized in the tetragonal phase. 

Both the activity and the selectiv- ity to propene increased with a decrease in the size of crystallites. 

Regardless of phase composition and crystallite size, the selectivity to propene is above 85% at propane conversion below 5% but decreases with increasing propane conversion or contact time.

Propene is formed directly from propane and then undergoes consecutive transformations. They include formation of carbon deposits over t-ZrO2 and cracking products over all ZrO2 samples.

Coke formation over m-ZrO2 mainly occurs with participation of propane or its surface intermediates also leading to propene.

The selectivity to propene over m-ZrO2 decreases from 90% to 83% with an increase in propane conversion from 9% to 33%.

The effect of crystallite size on coke formation can be explained as follows. As the ratio of r(C3H6)/r(coke) increases with a decrease in the size of ZrO2 crystallites, it is reasonable to suggest that there are at least two different active sites for propane/propene adsorption and further reaction. One type is Zrcus sites, which are active for propene formation and may also form coke but with a significantly lower rate in comparison with the rate of propene formation.

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Propene production primarily comes from steam and fluid catalytic cracking processes, but these methods struggle to meet the growing demand for propene. PDH is a major process for producing propene specifically and offers high selectivity for propene production.

2. The activity of monoclinic ZrO2 is higher than that of tetragonal ZrO2 in PDH. This is because monoclinic ZrO2 can release its lattice oxygen more easily, resulting in a higher concentration of Zrcus sites.

3. The selectivity to propene over monoclinic ZrO2 is higher than over tetragonal ZrO2. This is attributed to a higher ratio between Zrcus sites and those responsible for coke formation.

4. Coke formation over m-ZrO2 occurs via the participation of propane or its surface intermediates leading to propene. The selectivity to propene over m-ZrO2 decreases with an increase in propane conversion.

5. The size of ZrO2 crystallites impacts coke formation. Smaller crystallites lead to a higher ratio of Zrcus sites, which are active for propene formation and may also form coke but at a lower rate compared to propene formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 现在，丙烯主要通过蒸汽（60%-65%）或各种油分的流化催化裂解（30%）生产，但这些方法无法满足丙烯的需求。PDH是专门生产丙烯的最大过程之一，并且具有高丙烯选择性。

2. 在PDH中，单斜相ZrO2的活性高于四方相ZrO2。这是因为单斜相ZrO2可以更轻松地释放其晶格氧，从而导致Zrcus位点的更高浓度。

3. 与四方相ZrO2相比，单斜相ZrO2对丙烯的选择性更高。这是由于Zrcus位点与负责焦炭形成位点之间的较高比率所致。

4. 在m-ZrO2上，焦炭形成通过参与丙烯或其表面中间体产生丙烯进行。随着丙烯转化率的增加，m-ZrO2上的丙烯选择性降低。

5. ZrO2晶体粒度影响焦炭形成。较小的粒度导致更高的Zrcus位点比率，这些位点对于丙烯形成是活跃的，并且可能也形成焦炭，但速率低于丙烯形成的速率。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
