<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The process of selective oxygenate reforming contributes to sustainable energy and chemical production by converting oxygenates derived from renewable biomass into hydrogen, which can be used as a clean fuel or feedstock for chemical synthesis. This process offers several key advantages over traditional methods: it can produce hydrogen with lower net CO2 emissions compared to fossil fuels utilization; it operates at lower temperatures, which can reduce energy consumption and improve efficiency; and it can produce hydrogen with low CO concentrations, which is beneficial for fuel cell applications. The use of aqueous phase reforming, which operates in the liquid phase, eliminates the need to vaporize water and reactants, and allows the use of nonvolatile oxygenates as feed, making it a practical and efficient process for hydrogen production. The process of selective oxygenate reforming contributes to sustainable energy and chemical production by utilizing renewable biomass-derived feedstocks, which can result in lower net CO2 emissions compared to fossil fuels utilization. Its key advantages include the production of hydrogen for use in fuel cells, which is an endothermic process requiring an external heat source, operating at temperatures of 500-900 C. Typical catalysts used in steam reforming include Ni, Rh, Ru, and Pt. The high operating temperature favors CO production, and a second water-gas shift reactor operating at lower temperature is needed to reduce the CO concentration in the exit stream. Methanol steam reforming is carried out differently compared to other oxygenates, as the lack of a CC bond allows operation with good reforming selectivity at much lower temperatures, approximately 300-500 C, utilizing Cu or Pd-based catalysts with ZnO or CeO2 promoters. Autothermal reforming combines the decomposition of oxygenates to produce H2 with the exothermic partial oxidation of some of the feed to drive the endothermic reforming. It has been demonstrated to work with both volatile and non-volatile feeds, utilizing short contact time reactors with Pt, Rh, RhCe, and RhLa catalysts at temperatures between 700-1100 C. Aqueous phase reforming operates in the liquid phase to produce mainly CO2 and H2, eliminating the need to vaporize water and the reactant, and allowing the use of nonvolatile oxygenates as feed. The process operates at 200-250 C, much lower than either steam reforming or autothermal reforming, producing H2 with low CO concentrations in a single reactor. Typical pressures vary between 15-50 bar, and H2 and CO2 can be separated from the exit stream using current pressure swing adsorption or Pd membrane technologies. Literature studies show that Pt and Ni catalysts exhibit high reforming activity, while reforming selectivity is highest on Pt and Pd, with decreased selectivity on Ni due to methane production. Addition of Sn to Ni leads to a decrease in the production of methane.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          选择性氧酸重整过程通过将从可再生生物质中提取的氧酸转化为氢气，为可持续能源和化学品生产做出贡献，氢气可用作清洁能源或化学合成的原料。与传统方法相比，该过程具有几个关键优势：与化石燃料利用相比，它可以产生较低的净二氧化碳排放；它在较低温度下运行，可以减少能源消耗并提高效率；它可以产生低CO浓度的氢气，这对燃料电池应用有益。使用在液相中运行的水相重整，消除了水和反应物的汽化需求，并允许使用非挥发性氧酸作为原料，使其成为氢气生产实用且高效的过程。选择性氧酸重整过程通过利用可再生生物质衍生的原料，与化石燃料的利用相比，可以导致较低的净二氧化碳排放，从而为可持续能源和化学生产做出贡献。其主要优势包括生产用于燃料电池的氢气，这是一个需要外部热源的吸热过程，运行温度为500-900 C。在蒸汽重整中常用的催化剂包括Ni、Rh、Ru和Pt。高温操作有利于CO的产生，需要在较低温度下运行的第二个水煤气变换反应器来降低出口流中的CO浓度。与其他氧酸相比，甲醇蒸汽重整的运行方式不同，由于缺乏CC键，可以在大约300-500 C的较低温度下以良好的重整选择性运行，使用Cu或Pd基催化剂与ZnO或CeO2促进剂。自热重整将氧酸的分解以产生H2与部分氧化一些进料的放热反应结合起来，推动吸热重整。已经证明，它适用于挥发性和非挥发性进料，使用Pt、Rh、RhCe和RhLa催化剂，在700-1100 C的温度下，利用短接触时间反应器。水相重整在液相中运行，主要产生CO2和H2，消除了水和反应物的汽化需求，允许使用非挥发性氧酸作为进料。该过程在200-250 C的温度下运行，远低于蒸汽重整或自热重整，单个反应器中产生低CO浓度的H2。典型压力在15-50 bar之间，H2和CO2可以从出口流中使用当前的压力摆动吸附或Pd膜技术分离。文献研究表明，Pt和Ni催化剂表现出高重整活性，而重整选择性在Pt和Pd上最高，而Ni上的选择性由于甲烷的产生而降低。向Ni中添加Sn会导致甲烷产量的减少。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
