I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Lattice-strain control of the activity in dealloyed coreshell fuel cell catalysts Electrocatalysis will play a key role in future energy conversion and storage technologies, such as water electrolysers, fuel cells and metalair batteries. Molecular interactions between chemical reactants and the catalytic surface control the activity and efficiency, and hence need to be optimized; however, generalized experimental strategies to do so are scarce. Here we show how lattice strain can be used experimentally to tune the catalytic activity of dealloyed bimetallic nanoparticles for the oxygen-reduction reaction, a key barrier to the application of fuel cells and metalair batteries. We demonstrate the coreshell structure of the catalyst and clarify the mechanistic origin of its activity. The platinum-rich shell exhibits compressive strain, which results in a shift of the electronic band structure of platinum and weakening chemisorption of oxygenated species. We combine synthesis, measurements and an understanding of strain from theory to generate a reactivitystrain relationship that provides guidelines for tuning electrocatalytic activity.
Main Electrocatalytic energy-conversion processes are expected to play a major role in the development of sustainable technologies that mitigate global warming and lower our dependence on fossil fuels. More specifically, fuel cells that use polymer electrolyte membranes (electrochemical energy-conversion devices) are potentially useful as power sources in the transportation sector, one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases and consumers of fossil fuels. Efficient and stable fuel-cell electrocatalysts, however, are largely unavailable1,2,3, and so fundamental progress in the design of these catalysts is needed.
The ultimate goal in catalytic design is to have complete synthetic control of the material properties that determine the reactivity4,5. Catalysts that consist of two metals (bimetallic) allow greater reactivity and more flexible design, and recent studies have focused on these catalysts6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14. There are three fundamental effects in bimetallic catalysis: ensemble, ligand and geometric. Ensemble effects arise when dissimilar surface atoms, individually or in small groups (ensembles), take on distinct mechanistic functionalities, as demonstrated for palladium atom pairs on gold for a gas-phase catalytic reaction7,15. Ligand effects are caused by the atomic vicinity of two dissimilar surface metal atoms that induces electronic charge transfer between the atoms, and thus affects their electronic band structure. Finally, geometric effects are differences in reactivity based on the atomic arrangement of surface atoms and may include compressed or expanded arrangements of surface atoms (surface strain)16. Ligand and geometric effects1,2,8,15,17,18,19,20 and, in some cases, all three effects15, are generally simultaneously present and coimpact the observed catalytic reactivity. To date, however, no effective strategy to isolate and tune strain effects in electrocatalytic systems has been achieved. Considering the dimensions across which ensemble, geometric strain and ligand effects are effective, only geometric strain can impact surface reactivity over more than a few atomic layers. Hence, a catalyst structure that consists of a few atomic monometallic layers, supported on a substrate with different lattice parameters (a coreshell structure), should isolate geometric strain effects. If the amount of strain in these structures can be controlled, we could use the rich effects of bimetallic catalysis to tune surface catalytic reactivity continuously.
The preferential dissolution (removal) of the electrochemically more reactive component from a bimetallic alloy (precursor) that consists of a less reactive (here Pt) and more reactive metal (here Cu)21,22,23 is commonly referred to as dealloying. We showed that dealloyed PtCu nanoparticles have uniquely high catalytic reactivity for the oxygen-reduction reaction (ORR) in fuel cell electrodes24,25,26,27,28, which is of tremendous importance as it occurs at the cathode of virtually all fuel cells29,30, with pure Pt as the preferred catalyst. The ORR is sluggish, which is why significant amounts of Pt metal are required in fuel cells, which makes them prohibitively expensive. Dealloyed Pt catalysts, however, meet and exceed the technological activity targets in realistic fuel cells24, as shown in Supplementary Fig. S1. Owing to their reactivity, dealloyed Pt catalysts can reduce the required amount of Pt by more than 80%. Despite such importance, the mechanistic origin of their enhanced reactivity remains poorly understood. To realize similar property improvements in related electrocatalytic systems, the principles that underlie their performance must be elucidated. Here, we demonstrate that the concept of strain tuning the catalytic properties, introduced above, provides such a unifying principle.
Results We studied six different PtCu alloy nanoparticle precursors and their corresponding dealloyed counterparts. We used alloy precursors with various initial atomic Pt/Cu ratios and preparation, in particular the annealing temperature. We focused on two sets of three Pt/Cu ratios (Pt25Cu75, Pt50Cu50 and Pt75Cu25); one set was annealed at 800 C and the other at 950 C. To obtain the active dealloyed catalysts, the precursors were subjected to an identical electrochemical dealloying protocol in which Cu was removed preferentially from the precursor particles.
We first address the structure of the PtCu bimetallic precursors and the corresponding dealloyed catalysts. These form face-centred cubic disordered alloys31. Figure 1a,b shows energy-dispersive elemental colour-map overlays for Pt and Cu, acquired using a probe-corrected scanning transmission electron microscope (STEM), for the Pt25Cu75 800 C alloy precursor and the dealloyed catalyst, respectively; the mean particle size prior to dealloying (Fig. 1a) was around 4.5 nm (see Supplementary Fig. S2e), but the dealloyed, catalytically active form (Fig. 1b) exhibited a decrease in the average particle size to 3.4 nm (Supplementary Fig. S2e). The corresponding Pt25Cu75 950 C alloy precursor and dealloyed catalysts had average particle sizes of 6.0 nm and 5.1 nm, respectively. As Fig. 1b shows, for the dealloyed catalyst, Cu is confined to the centre of the majority of the dealloyed PtCu nanoparticles. The dealloyed particles exhibit a distinct Pt-enriched layer (blue in Fig. 1b) on the surfaces of the alloy PtCu cores (pink in Fig. 1b). A corresponding energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) line profile taken across the diameter of typical (4 nm) dealloyed nanoparticles confirmed the presence of a 0.6 nm, Pt-enriched layer on the surface of the dealloyed particles (Fig. 1c). Hence, the Pt and Cu elemental maps and line profiles shown in Fig. 1 provide evidence for the formation of a coreshell structure in the nanoparticles after dealloying, in which a Pt-enriched shell surrounds a PtCu core.
Figure 1: Elemental maps and line profiles of PtCu bimetallic nanoparticle precursors and dealloyed active catalysts. a,b, High-resolution EDS (HR-EDS) elemental maps of a Pt25Cu75 bimetallic nanoparticle alloy precursor (a) and of the active electrocatalyst after Cu dealloying from the precursor (b). Pt is given in blue, Cu in red and pink domains indicate well-alloyed PtCu domains. The precursor alloy was prepared at 800 C and is supported on carbon black of high surface area. The dealloyed catalyst was obtained by voltammetric cycling of the precursor between 0.05 V and 1.2 V (with respect to a reversible hydrogen electrode) in 0.1 M HClO4 solution. PtCu alloy domains are discernible in the centres of the dealloyed particles with a Pt-enriched surface. EDS elemental maps were acquired using a probe-corrected STEM and were extracted from spectrum images acquired from an area that measured 40 nm × 40 nm, with a beam size of 0.2 nm and a step (pixel) size of 0.2 nm. c, HR-EDS line profile across an individual 4 nm diameter dealloyed PtCu alloy active-catalyst particle. Data were acquired using a probe-corrected STEM with a probe diameter 0.2 nm and step size 0.2 nm. The thickness of the Pt-enriched particle shell was 0.6 nm, as shown by the dashed lines. c.p.s. = cycles per second.
Full size image Furthermore, aberration-corrected, high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) STEM images indicate a change in the Pt and Cu distributions within the nanoparticles, from a uniform PtCu alloy (Fig. 2a) to a morphology suggestive of a coreshell structure (Fig. 2b)32.
Figure 2: HAADF-STEM images of PtCu bimetallic nanoparticle precursors and dealloyed active catalysts. a,b, Sub-angstrom resolution images of individual (4 nm) PtCu nanoparticles that show a typical PtCu precursor alloy nanoparticle (a) and a typical PtCu dealloyed nanoparticle (b). The dealloyed nanoparticle exhibits an outer Pt-enriched shell (outer shell images brightly) and a PtCu alloy core (which images less brightly than the shell). Contrast variations in the HAADF-STEM images result from the atomic number (Z) difference between Pt and Cu (commonly referred to as Z-contrast imaging). The thickness of the Pt-enriched particle shell in (b) is 0.6 nm.
Full size image Further evidence comes from X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) data, which show a large enhancement in the surface concentration of Pt (Table 1). Based on the STEM, EDS and XPS data, we estimate the thickness of the Pt shell to be 0.61.0 nm, which corresponds to three or more Pt-rich layers, consistent with estimates from anomalous small-angle X-ray scattering of similar materials33. The propensity for Cu to dissolve means that dealloyed Pt50Cu50 and Pt75Cu25 nanoparticles possess a similarly Pt-enriched shell structure. From these combined, consistent results, we conclude that the geometry of the dealloyed Pt-enriched shell on the PtCu core leads to the high electrocatalytic activity. Specifically, we hypothesize that lattice strain in the Pt shell controls the surface catalytic reactivity.
Table 1 Composition depth profiles for Pt25Cu75.
Full size table We address our lattice-strain hypothesis using anomalous X-ray diffraction (AXRD), which permits independent measurements of the average lattice parameter and average composition of the scattering nanoparticles before and after dealloying. In AXRD, diffraction patterns are collected at a number of X-ray energies near the X-ray absorption edge of an element of interest (here Cu). Figure 3a shows (111) diffraction profiles of a Pt25Cu75 precursor at several energies. The scattering power of Cu drops near the Cu absorption edge, and so the diffracted intensity of the alloy shows a characteristic decrease, as indicated by the arrow in Fig. 3a. In AXRD, peak positions yield average lattice parameters for the nanoparticles, and the relationship between scattering intensity and energy (Supplementary equation (S2)) provides the chemical composition of the scattering alloy phase. As illustrated in Fig. 3b, this model equation for diffraction intensity (black line) was fitted to the integrated (111) peak intensities (red circles), and the compositions xPt and xCu were determined. Supplementary Fig. S3a provides a direct comparison of the chemical compositions, xPt, of the alloy precursors derived by AXRD and by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy.
Figure 3: AXRD-based structural and phase-composition analysis of PtCu bimetallic nanoparticle precursors and dealloyed nanoparticle catalysts. a, AXRD intensity profiles of a Pt25Cu75 alloy precursor as function of the scattering vector Q. Diffraction profiles were taken as a function of the X-ray energy across the X-ray absorption edge of Cu at 8,990 eV. Scattering intensities of Bragg reflections (shown are the (111) and (200) reflections) decrease (arrow) as the Cu absorption edge energy is approached. The extent of intensity decrease correlates with the Cu content of the scattering phase and can be used to extract composition. b, Fit (black line) of the relation (Supplementary equation (S2)) between the square of the scattering amplitude F2 and incident X-ray energy to experimental values (red circles) to extract the molar fractions of Pt and Cu in the scattering phase. AXRD provided the lattice parameter of the scattering phase (structural information) as well as its actual composition (chemical information). a.u. = arbitrary units.
Full size image Given the coreshell nature of the dealloyed particles, the lattice strain in the Pt shell is most relevant for surface catalysis. To estimate the lattice parameter in the particle shell, we approximated the structure of the dealloyed particles by a simple two-phase coreshell model, as shown schematically in Fig. 4a. We assumed a pure Pt shell with lattice parameter ashell that surrounded a PtCu alloy core with lattice parameter acore. Using the AXRD-derived nanoparticle compositions and lattice-parameter data34,35,36, our coreshell model allowed the determination of ashell. The strain, s(Pt), in the particle shell relative to bulk Pt, is given by equation (1), where aPt is the bulk Pt lattice parameter.
Figure 4: A simple structural two-phase core-shell model for the dealloyed nanoparticles and evaluation of their lattice parameters. a, Scheme of a simple two-phase structural model for the dealloyed state of a bimetallic particle. Pure Pt layers surround an alloy particle core (ashell and acore represent the mean lattice parameters in shell and core, respectively). Deviations of ashell from the bulk unit-cell parameter of pure Pt (aPt) imply strain, s(Pt). Shell and core regions possess a face-centred cubic structure and are assumed to be structurally and compositionally uniform. Using a simple linear model (Supplementary equation (S3)), ashell can be estimated without further assumptions about the volume of the core or shell. As PtCu alloys exhibit unit-cell parameters that are smaller than those of pure Pt, the model predicts ashell < aPt; that is, compressive strain in the shell. Unlike the model, a real coreshell particle shows a gradient in lattice parameters, with strain in the surface layer (point 1) being less than in layers near the core (point 2). b, Determination of ashell for dealloyed PtCu bimetallic particles, plotted as a function of the alloy precursor Cu atomic composition at precursor annealing temperatures of 950 C (blue) and 800 C (red). Dealloyed catalysts derived from precursors richer in Cu or precursors annealed at higher temperatures display a smaller lattice parameter in the shell. All alloys show lattice parameters below that of pure bulk Pt (dotted line). Error bars refer to resulting uncertainty involved in obtaining ashell from experiments and relations (Supplementary equations (S2), (S3), (S17)).Full size image Figure 4b shows ashell as a function of precursor composition and preparation temperature, and s(Pt) is shown in Supplementary Fig. S4. Foremost, the data show that for all catalysts the lattice parameter of the Pt shell, ashell, is smaller than that of pure Pt (dotted line, Fig. 4b) and so is strained compressively. With increasing Cu in the alloy precursor and with higher preparation temperature, ashell becomes smaller and the magnitude of s(Pt) larger. The observed synthesisstrain trends are understood within our coreshell model. The lattice mismatch between the Pt shell and the PtCu core causes a reduced PtPt interatomic distance in the shell. The richer in Cu the particle core, the smaller its lattice parameter, and hence the more strain induced in the shell. A similar argument holds for the increased strain in the high-temperature materials; for these, the bimetallic precursor phase is alloyed more uniformly with less residual, unalloyed Cu (ref. 25), which effectively makes the alloy phase richer in Cu. Both experimental and computational work suggest that lattice contraction induced by particle size (surface stress) in small Pt particles only becomes significant below a particle diameter of 2.5 nm (refs 37,38) and can therefore be ruled out as source of strain for the dealloyed coreshell particles.To gain insight into how the strain of the dealloyed catalysts affects the catalytic surface reactivity, we studied the electronic band structure. The d-band model developed by Nrskov and co-workers has been successful in relating the adsorption properties of rate-limiting intermediates in catalytic processes to the electronic structure of the catalyst39,40,41. For simple adsorbates, such as the ORR intermediates O and OH, this can be understood in a simple electron-interaction model in which the adsorbate valence p-level forms bonding and antibonding states with the metal d-band40,41. Population of any antibonding state leads to Pauli repulsion, and the bond strength is thereby weakened. A downward shift of the d-band pulls more of the antibonding states below the Fermi level, which results in increasing occupation and weaker adsorbate bonding.We extended and applied these ideas to single-crystal Pt surfaces by preparing and characterizing bimetallic single-crystal model surfaces that consist of atomic layers of Pt with various thicknesses grown on a Cu(111) substrate. This model mimics the structural and electronic environment of Pt layers that surround a particle core with significantly smaller lattice parameters, similar to the dealloyed PtCu catalysts42. Figure 5a shows the photoelectron spectra of the valence band of Pt in Pt(111) and for five monolayers (5 ML) of Pt grown on Cu(111), measured at grazing electron emission to enhance the surface sensitivity. There is no detectable Cu signal in the 5 ML Pt spectrum, and it thereby represents pure Pt with no ligand effect from the underlying Cu substrate. Based on low-energy electron diffraction (LEED) probing of the lattice parameter during the growth of Pt on Cu(111), 5 ML Pt should give about 2.5  0.3% compressive strain, as shown in Supplementary Fig. S6. The spectrum of Pt on Cu(111) shows a much broader d-band compared to that of the Pt(111) surface, and the d-band centre is downshifted from 2.87 eV to 3.26 eV below the Fermi level. The broadening is related directly to the compressive strain, because the electronic state overlap between the metal atoms increases with shorter interatomic distances; furthermore, keeping the d-occupancy constant for a pure metallic system gives rise to a downward shift of the d-band centre43.Figure 5: Surface-science XAS and XES studies of single-crystal model systems that mimic dealloyed bimetallic coreshell structures. a, Photoelectron spectra of the valence-band region for Cu(111), Pt(111) and 5 ML of Pt on Cu(111) measured with a photon energy of 620 eV and with a 15 grazing electron-emission angle. The inelastic background has been subtracted. The spectra of the 5 ML Pt on Cu(111) is dominated completely by the emission from Pt because no sharp Cu d-band emission is seen at 2.3 eV from the underlying substrate (similar spectra are also found for 3 ML of Pt). b, In-plane polarized oxygen K-edge XAS and normal emission oxygen K-edge XES of 0.2 ML of oxygen chemisorbed on 3.6 ML and 2.6 ML films of Pt on Cu(111) and on bare Pt(111). The XAS were normalized with respect to the high-energy region, where the cross-section is dominated by atomic effects related to the photoionization continuum, whereas the absolute intensity scaling between the XES and XAS spectra is arbitrary. The energy scale is with respect to the oxygen 1s binding energy, which represents the Fermi level38. The strain was estimated based on the Pt coverage and using the LEED data shown in Supplementary Fig. S6.Full size image Next, we used X-ray spectroscopy to monitor directly the position and atom-specific occupation of the oxygen 2p and Pt 5d antibonding states projected onto the oxygen atom40,41. Figure 5b shows the K-edge X-ray emission spectra (XES) and X-ray absorption spectra (XAS) of atomic oxygen adsorbed on thin films of Pt on Cu(111) and Pt(111) to show the occupied and the unoccupied electronic states, respectively. For oxygen on Pt(111), we observed a broad occupied bonding state in the XES spectrum and an intense resonance related to the antibonding state in the XAS spectrum. For the two Pt films on Cu(111), which correspond to strains of around 2.8  0.3% and 3.3  0.3% (ref. 42), we observed a decrease in the intensity of the antibonding resonance with increasing strain. Of primary interest is that, for the film with maximum strain, the antibonding resonance vanishes in the XAS spectrum and is resolved in the XES spectrum, which directly indicates that the antibonding state is occupied fully with a peak around 1.5 eV below the Fermi level.To quantify the relationship between surface strain, O and OH binding energies and the catalytic ORR reactivity, we carried out density functional theory (DFT) calculations to predict the changes in the PtO surface bond energy for a strained Pt(111) model surface. Our computations showed a linear relationship between lattice strain and the adsorbate bond energy, consistent with the experimental X-ray spectroscopy data and previous computational analyses16,44. By combining the strain-bond energy relationships with a microkinetic model, originally developed by Hammer and Nrskov39, for the electroreduction of oxygen18,45, we derived a volcano relation between the predicted ORR rate and the strain (the dashed line in Fig. 6). The volcano shape implies that compressive strain first enhances the overall ORR activity by reducing the binding energy of intermediate oxygenated adsorbates and, thereby, lowers the activation barriers for proton- and electron-transfer processes. Beyond a critical strain, however, the binding becomes too weak and the catalytic activity is predicted to decrease because of an increased activation barrier for either oxygen dissociation or the formation of a peroxyl (OOH) intermediate39.Figure 6: Experimental and predicted relationships between electrocatalytic ORR activity and lattice strain.The experimental ORR activity (in units of kT ln(js,alloy/js,Pt), T = 298 K), based on relative surface area, of two families of dealloyed PtCu bimetallic coreshell nanoparticles plotted as a function of strain, s(Pt), in the particle shell (red and blue triangles denote dealloyed PtCu precursors prepared at annealing temperatures of 800 C and 950 C, respectively). The ORR activity is proportional to the logarithm of the ratio of the ORR current density of the dealloyed particles to that of pure Pt nanoparticles; this quantity is the effective difference in ORR activation energies (reaction driving force). The experimental curves are upper bounds of the strain in the surface layer. The dashed line is the DFT-predicted, volcano-shaped trend of the ORR activity for a Pt(111) single-crystal slab under isotropic strain. Moderate compressive lattice strain is predicted to enhance the rate of ORR catalysis. Absolute and relative values are provided in Supplementary Table S1. Vertical error bars refer to experimental uncertainty involved in measuring catalytic activities from electrochemical systems; horizontal errors bars refer to errors involved in obtaining ashell from experiments and modelling.Full size image We also plotted (Fig. 6) the experimentally measured ORR electrocatalytic activities for our PtCu catalysts as a function of s(Pt) (electrochemical currents are reported in Supplementary Table S1). We did not, however, observe a decrease in the experimental activity values on the left side of the volcano curve, as predicted by theory; this is probably related to compressive-strain relaxation in the Pt shells. Pt atoms adjacent to the PtCu cores (Fig. 4a, point 2) adopt a lattice parameter closer to that of the cores32, but outer Pt shell atoms (Fig. 4a, point 1) relax towards the lattice constant of bulk Pt (ref. 42). Hence, the surface strain is less than that represented by ashell, which is an average strain in the Pt shell; if the surface strain was plotted in Fig. 6, we would expect a shift of all experimental data points to the right. Furthermore, it is difficult to prepare dealloyed nanoparticles of sufficiently high surface strain to access the true maximum of the volcano. When the strain passes a critical point, surface relaxation probably relieves further strain and thereby limits the accessibility of the high-strain side of the volcano. Figure 6 also reveals that the set of dealloyed nanoparticle catalysts prepared at the higher annealing temperature exhibits reduced activity at comparable lattice strain in the particle shells, presumably because of differences in the mean particle size. Hence, our strain-related conclusions generally refer to particles of comparable size.Discussion Dealloyed fuel-cell catalysts show unprecedented electrocatalytic activity for the electroreduction of oxygen, yet we did not have a fundamental understanding of the mechanistic origin of the catalytic enhancement. Here, we clarify the origin, on an atomic scale, of the exceptional electrocatalytic activity of dealloyed PtCu nanoparticles. We present microscopic and spectroscopic evidence for the formation of a PtCu alloy coreshell nanoparticle structure using STEM elemental maps (Fig. 1), XPS depth profiling (Table 1) and anomalous small-angle X-ray scattering33. Given the thickness of the pure Pt shell and considering the limited range of ligand effects46, we conclude that compressive-strain effects rather than ligand effects are responsible for the exceptional reactivity of the particle surface. This is in contrast to other ORR electrocatalyst systems, such as Pt monolayer20 or Pt skin17 catalysts, in which strain and ligand effects are always convoluted. Using X-ray diffraction, we measured and quantified the presence of compressive lattice strain in the Pt shells of the dealloyed particles.To further corroborate the lattice-strain hypothesis in coreshell structures, we studied a surface-science coreshell model system. Our goal was to verify experimentally the predicted effects on the band structure for compressively strained Pt layers. In contrast to previous reports of correlations in reactivity-band structure19, in which band-broadening and band-centre shifts were adopted from computational predictions, we demonstrated experimentally a continuous change of the oxygen 2p and Pt 5d antibonding state from above to below the Fermi level as additional compressive strain was applied, which resulted in a weakening of the adsorbate bond. This represents the first direct experimental confirmation of the computational prediction of band shifts of adsorbate-projected band structure. Finally, we correlated experimental synthesisstrainactivity data of dealloyed coreshell particles (Fig. 6). The resulting activitystrain relationships provide experimental evidence that the deviation of the Pt-shell lattice parameter from that of bulk Pt, that is the lattice strain in the shell, is the controlling factor in the catalytic enhancement of dealloyed Pt nanoparticles; in particular, these relationships are consistent with computational predictions that compressive strain enhances ORR activity.In conclusion, a coherent picture of the origin of the exceptional electrocatalytic reactivity for the ORR of dealloyed PtCu particles is now established. Strain forms in Pt-enriched surface layers (shells) that are supported on an alloy particle core with a smaller lattice parameter. The compression in the shell modifies the d-band structure of the Pt atoms, and thereby weakens the adsorption energy of reactive intermediates compared to unstrained Pt and results in an increase in the catalytic reactivity, consistent with DFT-based predictions. A unique feature of the class of dealloyed catalysts is the experimental control over the extent of dealloying (shell thickness) and the alloy core composition (the upper limit for strain in the shell). The noble and the non-noble constituents can be adjusted in the alloy precursor, such that both expansive and compressive strain can be achieved to control the strengthening or weakening of surface bonds. This enables continuous tuning of catalytic reactivity. We demonstrate explicitly such strain-related tuning for the ORR, and this phenomenon will probably offer control over the activity of other important electrocatalytic reactions that require modification of the adsorption energy of reactive intermediates, such as the electrooxidation of small organic molecules, including ethanol, methanol and related species.Methods Synthesis PtCu binary electrocatalyst precursors were synthesized using a liquid metalsalt precursor impregnation method followed by freeze-drying and thermal annealing. This method was applied previously to the synthesis of binary25,47 and ternary24 Pt alloys. The nanoparticle-catalyst precursors were prepared by adding appropriate stoichiometric amounts of a solid Cu precursor (Cu(NO3)2·2.5H2O, Sigma-Aldrich) to weighted amounts of commercial Pt electrocatalyst powder, of 30 weight per cent platinum nanoparticles supported on carbon with a high surface area (TEC10E30E from Tanaka Kikinzoku).Electrochemical measurements The voltammetric response of the electrocatalysts was measured first during the initial three cyclic voltammetry (CV) scans at 100 mV s1 to obtain the initial rapid Cu-dissolution profiles. The catalysts were further pretreated using 200 CV scans between 0.05 V and 1.0 V at a scan rate of 500 mV s1, during which a large amount of Cu was lost from the alloy nanoparticles. Thereafter, the Pt electrochemical surface area (Pt-ECSA) was determined by cycling the treated catalysts at 100 mV s1 between 0.05 V to 1.2 V and integrating the Faradaic charge associated with stripping of underpotentially deposited hydrogen (Supplementary Fig. S1a). Pt-ECSA measurements using CO stripping resulted in comparable values of the surface area.Linear-sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements were conducted under an oxygen atmosphere by sweeping the potential from 0.06 V anodically to the open-circuit potential (1.0 V) at a scan rate of 5 mV s1 (Supplementary Fig. S1b). The ORR activities of the dealloyed, activated catalysts were corrected for mass-transport limitation using equation (5) in Gasteiger et al.3. Specific activities for mass and surface area were established at 900 mV at room temperature (Supplementary Fig. S1c,d).Electron microscopy (STEM and EDS) EDS imaging was carried out in STEM mode at 200 kV with a Philips CM200FEG equipped with an EDAX detector/pulse processor and an Emispec Vision system (Supplementary Fig. S2). Pt-L and Cu-K elemental maps were extracted from the spectral data and PtCu (blue and red, respectively) colour map overlays were produced (Fig. 1a,b). High-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) STEM images of individual PtCu nanoparticles were recorded at sub-angstrom resolution using a JEOL 2200FS Cs-corrected STEM (CEOS hexapole aberration-corrector) operated at 200 kV.Anomalous X-ray diffraction Synchrotron-based XRD was used to characterize Pt-alloy electrocatalyst precursor powders as well as electrochemically treated activated catalyst films using X-ray energies from 8,900 eV, through the Cu K-adsorption edge (8,979 eV) to 9,150 eV. Diffraction measurements were conducted at the Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource (SSRL) beamline 2-1. A detailed description of the analysis of the AXRD results is provided in the Supplementary Information.Computational methods Computational analysis was carried out using DACAPO (ref. 48), a total-energy calculation code. All calculations were performed on a four-layer slab with a 2 × 2 unit cell. Full relaxation of the oxygen adsorbate and of the first two metal layers was allowed. For strained Pt slabs, uniform expansion (or contraction) of the Pt(111) lattice was allowed in all three Cartesian directions, and no corrections to the interlayer Pt distance were included. This model provides a reasonable representation of the compression found in the Pt-base metal alloys that form the substrate of the Pt samples.X-ray photoelectron, X-ray emission and X-ray absorption spectroscopy XPS, XES and XAS measurements were performed in an ultrahigh vacuum end-station with a base pressure better than 1010 torr at beamline 13-2 at SSRL, which contains an elliptically polarized undulator that allows control of the direction of the photon E vector about the propagation direction. An electron energy analyser (VG-Scienta SES-100 or R3000), mounted perpendicular to the incoming light, was used for the XPS measurements. This was also equipped with a partial-yield detector for X-ray absorption measurements. Samples were mounted on a rotatable sample rod at grazing angle (5 for the photon incidence angle) with respect to the incoming light. The independent rotation of the sample and the photon polarization (E vector) allowed for selection of arbitrary angles between the E vector and the sample surface and any choice of detection angle with respect to the sample surface. Composition of the catalysts was determined by measuring the ratio of Pt 4f to Cu 3p XPS intensities normalized to their respective subshell photoionization cross-sections49 for different photon energies. The kinetic energy of the photoelectron defines the inelastic mean free path and the probing depth of the analysis. We varied the photoelectron kinetic energy by changing the incident photon energy to obtain the composition at different probing depths (see Table 1). The estimated probing depths are 0.6 nm, 1 nm, 1.5 nm, 1.8 nm and 7 nm at photon energies of 250 eV, 620 eV, 1,130 eV, 1,480 eV and 8,000 eV, respectively. Further experimental details are provided in the Supplementary Information.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the thermodynamic stability of specific bimetallic structures, particularly in Pt-3d systems with subsurface 3d atoms, contribute to the strong correlation between model surfaces and supported catalysts in hydrogenation reactions, and what are the implications of this correlation for designing more effective catalysts using first principles on model surfaces?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 