I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


ADVANCES IN CATALYSIS, VOLUME 35
Surface-Generated Gas-Phase Radicals: Formation, Detection,and Role in Catalysis DANIEL J. DRISCOLL,* KENNETH D. CAMPBELL,
AND JACK H. LUNSFORD
Department o f Chemistry Texas A&M University College Station, Texas 77843
1.
Introduction Recently there has been a renewed interest in the formation, detection, and reactions of surface-generated gas-phase free radicals during heterogeneous catalytic reactions. Radical species have long been proposed as intermediates in numerous catalytic reactions, and in particular for reactions involving the partial oxidation of hydrocarbons (1-4). In most cases it is generally believed that the radical? remain on the surface and undergo further surface reactions to yield the final products before desorption. However, there is now a growing body of evidence which suggests that desorbed gas-phase radicals may also play a role in the formation of primary products. Several recently proposed reaction mechanisms include surface-generated gas-phase radicals as integral parts of important catalytic processes. Most notable among these is the oxidative coupling of methane.
The participation of surface-generated gas-phase radicals in the partial oxidation of propylene over bismuth molybdate, cuprous oxide, and several other metal oxides was previously proposed by Keulks et al.
(5,6).
By varying the postcatalytic volume of their reactor (and thus the residence time) they concluded that, in addition to the heterogeneous oxidation, a surface-initiated homogeneous gas-phase reaction was also taking place. The latter reaction was responsible for an increase in the conversion of propylene and for the formation of propylene oxide and formaldehyde,as well as increased amounts * Present address: Department of Chemistry, The City College of CUNY, New York, NY
10031.
139 Copyright 01987 by Academic Press, Inc.
All rights of reproduction In any form reserved. 140 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al. of acetaldehyde. Similar results had been obtained earlier, by McCain and Godin (7), for the partial oxidation of propylene over a catalyst consisting of bismuth, phosphorus, and molybdenum oxides supported on silica. These investigators also concluded that a heterogeneous-homogeneous pathway was probably involved in the overall mechanism; however, the identity of the desorbed intermediate remained unclear.
To explain these results, Daniel and Keulks (5) proposed the following mechanism (Scheme 1)::H -CH2(ads.) -
C H Z = C H - C C H  ( Q )
SCHEME
1.
Modified reaction mechanism for propylene partial oxidation. From Keulks et nl. (2).
In addition to the generally accepted surface reaction of the allyl radical (2,3,8), secondary gas-phase reactions of desorbed allyl radicals with molecular oxygen result in the formation of allyl peroxide (or allyl hydroper- oxide) radicals. Subsequent reactions of these radicals with propylene yield propylene oxide, whereas their reaction with the surface yields acrolein. The formation of acrolein via a heterogeneous- homogeneous pathway, initiated by surface-generated gas-phase allyl radicals, had also been previously proposed by Polyakov (9) for propylene partial oxidation over a flat copper oxide catalyst.
Latyshev and Popova (10) studied the oxidation of n-butenes and methylacetylene on copper oxide and bismuth molybdate by separational calorimetric analysis. In this technique the temperature of the catalyst surface and that of the gaseous mixture, during an experiment, were separately measured. In the presence of copper oxide, they observed a significant increase in the temperature of the gaseous mixture, relative to the surface, under
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
141 pressure and temperature conditions where purely homogeneous oxidation reactions of n-butenes did not occur. Moreover, the product distribution obtained with a copper oxide catalyst in the reactor was similar to that found for homogeneous oxidation reactions. These results were interpreted by assuming a heterogeneous-homogeneous mechanism. The formation of oxygen-containing products was explained by a gas-phase reaction initiated by the desorption of 1-methylallyl radicals into the gas phase where they were readily oxidized into methyl vinyl ketone, acetone, and other compounds.
Boldyreva et al. (11) also employed separational calorimetry to examine the oxidation of carbon monoxide on metallic palladium and palladium- promoted V,O, and Cr,O,. In all reactions examined, a temperature difference between the catalyst surface and the gas phase was detected. This difference was, once again, attributed to the occurrence of a heterogeneous- homogeneous reaction, in this case initiated by OH- radicals which were released from the catalyst surface. The radical source here was believed to be trace amounts of water vapor present in the reaction mixture or on the catalyst surface.
In the preceding studies, support for the participation of surface-generated gas-phase radicals in the heterogeneous- homogeneous pathway was ob- tained indirectly by examining temperature differences within the reactor,variations in the postcatalytic volume residence time, and changes in the final product distribution. The term indirectly has been used here to indicate that the radicals were not detected spectroscopically. Obviously, the proposed schemes would have gained more credibility if direct evidence had been obtained for the formation of the radical intermediates. However, at the time of these studies, direct evidence for the desorption of these intermediates was extremely limited, primarily because of the remarkable tendency of the radicals to undergo rapid secondary gas-phase reactions.
Although conventional mass spectrometry had been employed as a direct detection method as early as ca. 1948 (12, 13),it was not until the mid to late 1970s that newer, more advanced spectroscopic techniques for the detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals were developed. Many of these tech- niques are extremely versatile, and experimental systems have now been designed which allow routine detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals. These new methods include matrix-isolation infrared spectroscopy (Id), modulated-beam mass spectrometry (15), photoelectron spectroscopy (16), laser-induced fluorescence ( I 7,18),resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization (19),and matrix-isolation electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) (20,21).
It should be pointed out that it is not the spectroscopic techniques themselves that are new, but rather the system designs employing the technique. Many of these techniques had been used extensively in the past for free-radical detection, particularly during high-temperature gas-phase com- bustion studies. 142
DANIEL
J. DRISCOLL et al.
It is important to emphasize the benefits of being able to detect directly the presence of surface-generated gas-phase radicals during a heterogeneous catalytic reaction. During any gas-solid heterogeneous reaction involving surface-produced radicals, a certain fraction will be released into the gas phase.
The amount released from the catalyst surface will be governed by some type of a gas-solid radical equilibrium. Two extreme cases can be easily envisioned;however, under actual reaction conditions the amount will most likely reach some intermediate value. At one extreme, the majority of the radicals produced will be released into the gas phase where they can then undergo further homogeneous gas-phase reactions.
At the other limit, because of the preference of the radicals to undergo further surface reactions, only a small fraction will be released into the gas phase. The latter is probably the case in the earlier cited examples.
In either instance,direct detection of the radicals would provide considerably more support for the previously proposed reaction mechanisms, and in the former case radical detection could also provide valuable information about the overall reaction mechanism and the reaction kinetics.
In this review, the direct spectroscopic methods for the detection of wrface- generated gas-phase radicals, along with the reactions examined by each technique, will be described. The proposed mechanisms for the formation of these species will also be presented whenever possible. Finally, the formation of stable final products via mechanisms involving surface-generated gas-phase radicals will be considered, with particular emphasis being placed on those reactions in which it is believed that this is the primary reaction pathway.
II.
Direct Detection of Surface-Generated Gas-Phase Radicals In this section,all of the direct detection techniques reported thus far, and the reactions examined,will be described. Some of the methods have only been used to examine one or two reactions; however, for the sake of completeness,these techniques are also included.
A. MASS
SPECTROMETRY
1.
Conventional Mass Spectrometry As mentioned in Section I, the detection of free-radical intermediates in catalytic reactions by means of mass spectrometry is not new. A good general review of the early work can be found in a paper by Harrison (22).
The technique has been used primarily to detect the formation of free radicals
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
143 during catalytic decompositions on heated metal surfaces. The earliest reported work was by Eltenton (12), who qualitatively examined the decomposition of C1 to C4 hydrocarbons over a heated carbon grid at temperatures of - 800 to 1200C and pressures of 50.5 torr. After contact with the grid, a portion of the effluent stream was directed to the ion source of the spectrometer through a pinhole leak, by what was considered to be an essentially collision-free path. Free radicals were detected in nearly all of the decompositions studied, the predominant species identified being the methyl,ethyl, and ally1 radicals. Considering the surface employed and the extremely high temperatures used, it is likely that most of the radicals were produced by unimolecular thermal decomposition rather than from surface interactions.
However, these studies deserve mention here in that they provided the foundation for radical identification in future mass spectrometry studies.
Robertson (13) was actually the first investigator to detect the formation of catalytically generated gas-phase radicals. In these studies the pinhole leak was eliminated and the hot catalyst surface was actually placed inside the ion source so that it was separated from the electron beam by only the ion repeller in the form of a thin wire gauze. This arrangement resulted in a notable improvement in both detection sensitivity and sampling geometry; however, it unfortunately limited maximum reaction pressures to In the initial study, the decomposition of methane, ethane, and n-butane over a platinum filament at -
1000C
was examined. The primary dissociation of methane resulted in the formation of gas-phase methyl radicals which then underwent further homogeneous reactions to produce ethane, propane, and butane. Radical production slowly decreased with time, and this was attributed to formation of a carbon layer on the platinum surface. When the deactivated filament was reheated at high temperature in the presence of oxygen, large amounts of CO, were liberated and the activity for radical formation was restored. This confirmed, for the first time, that radical formation was being promoted by the platinum surface and not simply by thermal decomposition.
The reaction of ethane was found to produce ethylene only; however, later work by Fabian and Robertson (23) showed that this reaction was highly dependent on the condition of the filament and that by using a freshly cleaned platinum surface, gas-phase ethyl radicals could indeed be produced. As with methane, deactivation of the catalyst from carbon deposition was observed.
The decomposition of ethane on a heated tungsten surface was also examined (24).
This surface produced primarily ethyl radicals, rather than ethylene, and the yield was considerably higher than for the platinum surface. In contrast to the platinum catalyst, no deactivation was observed and this was believed to result from the formation of a highly active form of tungsten carbide instead of coke. torr. 144 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al.
Decomposition of n-butane, in the initial study, resulted in the formation of free ethyl radicals along with the stable products, ethane and ethylene. Butyl radicals were not detected in this study; however,later work (24),using a more sensitive spectrometer, showed that gas-phase butyl radicals were produced,but in very low quantities. The following reaction scheme was proposed to explain the results. Hydrogen atom abstraction by the platinum catalyst led to the formation of small amounts of free butyl radicals and a preferred surface
.CH,-CH,-CH,-CH,.
species. In either case, central C-C bond scission,with simultaneous double-bond formation, resulted in the production of ethylene and free ethyl radicals, which further reacted to give ethane. Once again, the reaction rate slowly decreased with time, presumably because of coke formation. Free propyl and hydroxyl (OH.) radicals were also detected during the decompositions of propane (24) and water (23),respectively, over platinum at -
1000C. The formation of gas-phase hydroxyl radicals during
high-temperature water decomposition over platinum had been previously observed by Tsuchiya (25). Unfortunately, no additional details on this reaction were reported in either study.
The preceding technique was later employed by several other investigators to detect the formation of surface-generated gas-phase radicals. For example, LeGoff (26,27) detected gas-phase methyl radicals during the decomposition of Pb(CH,),, CH,I, and [(CH,),CO] on platinum at high temperatures.
Reaction rates for all three compounds were nearly identical and the activity for free-radical formation was found to vary directly with the filament surface area. Blanchard and LeGoff (28) studied the reaction of CS,, HIS, SO,, and CCl, on both pure and carburized tungsten filaments at temperatures between 1000 and 1400C. They detected a variety of free radicals and found that the species produced during a specific reaction were highly dependent on the temperature employed and the condition of the tungsten surface. In addition to these works, Waldron (29) detected methyl radicals during the decom- position of Hg(CH,), over a platinum filament, and Reed and co-workers (30,31) detected CHO., CH,CO., and a number of halogenated radicals during the decomposition of suitable derivatives on tungsten filaments. In these studies the main interest lay in the measurement of the radical ionization potential and the reactions were not studied in detail.
Although these studies demonstrated that it was possible to detect surface- generated gas-phase radicals, no corresponding data on the absolute amounts produced were reported. A study by Osberghaus and Taubert (32) estimated that methyl radical yield during the decomposition of methane over a platinum filament at 1200C was less than 0.2% and it is likely that radical yields for the other reactions examined were not significantly higher than this.
These low amounts obviously tend to suggest that the decompositions were primarily occurring on the metal surfaces. It is also important to note that the temperatures employed, in all cases, were extremely high (- 1000C) and,
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
145 although catalyst deactivation was generally observed, there is still some question as to how much of the radical formation was actually promoted catalytically, and not just thermally.
Using an improved catalyst design Martin and Rummel(33) were able to detect the presence of surface-generated gas-phase methyl radicals during methane decomposition over palladium at a pressure of 5 x lop4 torr and temperatures as low as
40C.
In addition to detecting desorbed radicals during simple decompositions, this new design also was capable of detecting de- sorbed free radical intermediates produced during heterogeneous hydro- genation reactions. For example, during methyl cyanide (CH,CN, mass = 41) hydrogenation over platinum at 85C the major intermediate detected in the mass spectrum was the C2H,N (mass = 44) radical. Surprisingly, relatively few C,H,N (mass = 42) and C2H,N (mass = 43) species were detected. If hydrogen atoms were added one at a time a gradual distribution of the higher masses, such as 42 > 43 > 44, would be expected. Since this was not the case, it was proposed that all three hydrogens were added simultaneously, possibly via an H, species which was stabilized on the palladium surface; however,evidence to support this claim could not be obtained. The important point here is not whether the proposed mechanism is correct, but rather the fact that direct detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals had been employed in an effort to obtain mechanistic information on a primarily surface reaction,other than a decomposition, at temperatures at which the reactions were actually carried out.
Melton (34,35) further simplified and improved upon Robertsons design and a schematic of this system is presented in Fig. 1. Here the catalyst also
CATALYST
FIG.
1. Mass spectrometer source for catalysis studies. From Melton (35)
146 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al. served as the ion repeller. This decreased the pathlength to the electron beam and allowed the detection of transient intermediates with lifetimes on the order of 2 ps. In addition, this system allowed the reactant pressure to be varied over a tremendous range, from lo-* to as high as 1 torr, in the ion chamber.
The decomposition of 1-butene over a palladium catalyst at 1000C and pressures between 0.1 and 1.0 torr was examined initially (35).
This hydrocar- bon was chosen because the radical intermediates produced during purely thermal decomposition were well known (36) and, therefore, could be compared with the intermediates observed here. During thermal decom- position C-C bond scission appeared to be the predominant process, and this resulted in the formation of large amounts of methyl and ally1 radicals. In contrast, the predominant process occurring here appeared to be C-H bond scission which resulted primarily in the formation of C,H, - radicals. Small amounts of C3H,. and C3H3. radicals were also detected but, surprisingly,no methyl radicals were observed. This striking difference in radical inter- mediates was considered to be firm support that the radicals observed here were being produced catalytically on the platinum surface and not via thermal decomposition.
Subsequently, the reaction [Eq. (l)] (1) was investigated using this technique. A free radical, of molecular formula
CDO., was shown to be formed by and desorbed from the Pt catalyst during
this reaction. From data obtained using DCOOH as a model compound it was further suggested that the desorbed CDO. radical was most likely formed via some type of a surface formate intermediate. Additional studies also demonstrated that D atoms were desorbed during the reaction of D, over platinum; however, no D atoms were detected when the reaction was carried out in the presence of CO,. It was proposed that the presence of CO,inhibited D, decomposition, or at least D atom desorption, and thus promoted a surface reaction which resulted in the formation of the active formate species.
More recent studies,employing the same system,focused on the detection of transient intermediates produced during ammonia decomposition over a platinum catalyst (37-39). At temperatures 2 500C both .NH- and NH2. radicals were detected, with NH,. being the most abundant. No mechanistic information was reported and later studies,to be presented in the discussion of laser-induced fluorescence,indicate that .NH. is the more abundant radical.
Ammonia decomposition over iron at 1000C was also briefly examined. In contrast to the platinum catalyst, N atoms and .NH. radicals were the predominant species desorbed. Relatively few NH, radicals were detected. In
PI
650C
D
Z
+ CO,
DZO + CO
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
147 addition, overall radical desorption was found to be considerably less in this case.
Finally, acetone decomposition over a Pt catalyst was examined with this technique (40).
At a temperature of 1 lOO"C, and pressures between lop2 and 1 torr, two free radicals, CH,. and CH,COCH,., were observed in high concentrations in the gas phase during the decomposition. Each radical appear4 to have been produced by a different elementary reaction. Methyl radicals probably resulted from the initial decomposition reaction on the surface [Eq. (2)], CH3COCH3(s) -
2CH3.(g)+
CO(g) (2) whereas, CH,COCH, - radicals were most likely produced by subsequent reactions of CH,. with acetone [Eq. (3)]:
CH3. + CH3COCH3
CH, + CH,COCH,*
(3) It was not determined whether the latter reaction occurred on the surface or in the gas phase or both; however, a comparison of the final product distribution obtained here with those previously observed during homogeneous gas-phase decompositions (41) indicated that the gas-phase route was most probable. In order to ensure that the overall reaction was not simply a gas phase decomposition, the activation energy was determined here and compared to the known gas-phase value. For gas-phase decomposition the activation energy is in the range of 65-75 kcal/mol while the value calculated in this work was about one-half of that, 34.3 kcal/mol. This clearly demonstrated that the reaction was primarily on the surface rather than a homogeneous decomposition.
It was not until the 1970s that mass spectrometry was employed for the detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals during heterogeneous partial oxidation reactions. The desorption of allyl radicals (H,C-CHr CH,.) during the partial oxidation of propylene on manganese oxide (T = 600-650C, p = -lo-' torr) was first observed by Hart and Friedli (42).Using conventional mass spectrometry, in conjunction with a low-pressure flow reactor, they observed an increase in the peak height at mass number 41 only when the catalyst was present in the reactor. Prior calibration of the spectrometer, using the thermal decomposition of 1,5-hexadiene as a model,had shown that this peak resulted from the presence of gas-phase allyl radicals.Since gas-phase allyl radicals were produced from propylene at the same rate over the manganese oxide catalyst whether or not gaseous oxygen was present (thus ruling out some gas-phase form of oxygen as the initiator) and since no radicals were produced in the absence of the catalyst, it was concluded that the surface acts as a hydrogen-atom abstracting agent to produce allyl radicals which then desorb into the gas phase. As with many of the early radical 148 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al. detection studies, no further details on the mechanism or radical yields were presented.In a more recent work Dolejsek and Navakova (44, using a similar experimental arrangement, also detected the presence of gas-phase allyl radicals during the interaction of propylene with manganese oxide. X-Ray analysis of the catalyst showed a mixture of Mn,O, and Mn203 and,although it was not actually stated, this was probably the same composition employed in the preceding work by Hart and Friedli (42).They further extended this study to include the interaction of propylene with ZnO, MnO,,and the mixed oxides Mo-Mn-0 and Bi-Mo-0. All reactions were carried out in the absence of oxygen at temperatures from 400 to 850C and a pressure of - lo-, torr. Desorbed allyl radicals were again detected when the reaction was carried out in the presence of ZnO; however, no free-radical species were detected during the reactions over MnO, or either of the mixed oxides. The absence of desorbed allyl radicals over Bi-Mo-0 (one of the bismuth molybdates) was somewhat surprising since a number of recent studies, using indirect detection techniques, had indicated that allyl radicals were indeed an intermediate during the partial oxidation of propylene over bismuth molyb- date (5, 6, 44-46; see also Scheme 1). However, it was also determined that the reaction occurred primarily on the surface of the catalyst, thus, the radi- cal amounts released may have been below the sensitivity limits of the spectrometer.From the preceding discussion, it would appear that conventional mass spectrometry has considerable potential for studying a variety of surface- generated gas-phase reactions. However, since the publication by Dolejsek and Navakova (43) in 1975,no further reports of its use have appeared in the literature.
2. Modulated-Beam Mass Spectrometry
The only reported use of modulated-beam mass spectrometry for the detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals was by Amorebieta and Colussi (15) in 1982. Briefly, in this technique the effluent gas stream (or beam) is mechanically chopped (modulated) some known distance before contact with the ionizing electron beam (47,48).
This introduces both an amplitude and a phase dependency on the observed mass spectrum. Analysis of the combined amplitude and phase shift differences,by phase spectrometry (time- of-flight analysis), then allows subtraction of background radicals produced by dissociative ionization of either residual or reactant gases which were present in the ionizing chamber. For further details on the technique, the reader is directed to the two cited references.
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
149 In this study the catalytic decomposition of hexane over tungsten (800-
1500C)
and platinum (575-1 100C) was examined using a low-pressure flow reactor in tandem with a modulated-beam mass spectrometer. Gas-phase methyl, ethyl, allyl, and propyl radicals were detected over both catalysts. No hexyl radicals were observed,which tends to indicate that the preferred route for hexane decomposition was via C-C bond scission rather than hydrogen atom abstraction. Over both metals it was suggested that all of the radicals were produced entirely on the surface and then desorbed into the gas phase instead of being produced from secondary homogeneous gas-phase reactions above the catalyst surface.
Direct experimental proof of the catalytic nature of hexane decomposition was provided by the fact that the distributions of both free radicals and stable products were considerably different over each metal.
In addition, the rate of hexane decomposition over platinum slowly decreased with time and eventually fell to zero, presumably because of surface coke formation. Similar deactivation behavior had been observed earlier by Robertson (13,24) and Fabian and Robertson (23) during the high- temperature decompositions of methane, ethane, and n-butane on platinum.
Additional confirmation for the presence of gas-phase free radicals was obtained by adding iodine vapor to the effluent stream and analyzing, by mass spectrometry, for the presence of alkyl iodides formed by the reaction rEq. (411:
R * + I ,
R I + I *
(4) The results of this study further verified that the aforementioned gas-phase radicals were indeed produced during hexane decomposition at elevated temperatures over these metals. Unfortunately, this backup study did not provide additional information as to the actual source of the free radicals (i.e.,surface or gas phase).
B. MATRIX-ISOLATION
INFRARED
SPECTROSCOPY
The use of matrix-isolation infrared spectroscopy for the detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals, like modulated-beam mass spectrome- try, has been limited to a single study. Tevault et al. (14) employed this technique to examine the desorbed gas-phase products produced during the decomposition of formic acid (HCOOH) on platinum (T = 150-450C) at extremely low pressures (- 1 mtorr). The decomposition of gaseous HCOOH was carried out by passing 10O/1 Ar/HCOOH mixtures through a resistively heated platinum screen and collecting the effluent gas mixture in an inert argon matrix on a CsI window maintained at a temperature of 8 K. Spectra were then obtained by standard infrared (IR) techniques. Cryogenic trapping 150 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al. is a reasonably mature technique; however, further details on matrix-isolation IR, or cryogenic techniques in general, can be found in a review by Ozin and Vander Voet (49) and a book by Moskovits and Ozin (50). A somewhat modified schematic of the actual system, excluding the catalyst, also can be found in an earlier paper by Smardzewski and Fox (51).
In addition to the expected infrared bands for CO, COz,and H,O, several new absorption bands were found at 3510, 3480, 1755, 1135, and 700 cm-'.The bands at 3510 (v0-& 3480 (vOPH), 1755 (vcLo), and 700 ( v
,
cm-' were assigned to the hydroxycarbonyl (O=C-0-H) radical. These assignments were based on those previously observed during the gas-phase reaction of H atoms with HCOOH (52) [Eq. (5)]:
H+HCOOH
H,+.OCOH
( 5 ) The identity of the 1135 cm-' band, which was also observed during this reaction [Eq. (511, was not determined. It is of value to note that no C-H vibrations were observed here. Furthermore, the infrared spectrum observed during the decomposition of DCOOH under the same conditions was nearly identical, which lends additional support to the fact that the surface was selectively promoting hydrogen atom abstraction from the carbon atom, and not the oxygen [Eq. (6)]:
4 O
4 O
(6)
(D)HC
t M
M...H(D)
+ *C,
'OH
OH
The M represents some active site on the platinum surface which was not further defined. Decomposition of HCOOD was also examined. In agreement with the earlier proposal, no C-H vibrations were detected, but the 0-D stretching frequencies were now present.
The infrequent use of this technique for the detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals probably stems from identification problems. For positive identification, the infrared spectrum of the species in question must be obtained by some alternate method (for example, microwave discharge) and compared. This in itself is not always an easy task. In addition, quantitative infrared analysis, in any case, is never a simple matter.
C. LASER-INDUCED
FLUORESCENCE
During the past few years the ability of lasers to deliver large amounts of energy within small spectral ranges has resulted in the development of a number of new and very sensitive analytical techniques. One example of such a technique is laser-induced fluorescence ( 5 3 ) ,
which uses light from a tunable laser to excite fluorescence in the species under study. The high sensitivity of
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
151 this method makes it an excellent tool to study gas-phase reaction inter- mediates such as surface-generated gas-phase free radicals. For a more general discussion on laser probing of molecules desorbing and scattering from solid surfaces a review by Lin and Ertl(54) is suggested.
1. Detection and Study of Surface-Generated O H .
Radicals a. Matrix-Isolation Studies. Talley et al.
(17) utilized matrix isolation (MI) and laser-induced fluorescence (LIF) to detect the formation of gas-phase
OH. radicals during the reaction of H, and 0,
on Pt. A schematic of the MI- LIF apparatus is presented in Fig. 2. A reactant mixture of H,:O,:Ar (1 :1 :200) was introduced through inlet S, passed over the heated Pt grid, and collected on the 10 K copper plate which could be rotated 90" to carry out the LIF analysis. The partial pressure of the reactants near the catalyst was approximately torr.
At Pt temperatures of 600C and above, a fluorescence band at 340 nm due to the OH. radical isolated in the argon matrix was observed. Intensity versus temperature measurements gave an activation energy of 41 kcal/mol for the production of OH - radicals from the Pt surface over the temperature range of 675-860C. More importantly, the fluorescence intensities seen in the MI experiments indicated that the direct detection of the gas-phase OH- radicals was possible.
S
FIG.
2. LIF
matrix-isolation experimental apparatus. Laser pulse triggers oscilloscope and is directed onto matrix after visible light is filtered by F,.
Fluorescence is collected and focused onto the monochromator slit by a lens (L). Filter F, removes light at the excitation wavelength. The photomultiplier output is read directly from the oscilloscope.
The dashed outline in the cell shows the position of the copper block during deposition. The sample is admitted through S. From Talley et al. (17). 152 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al. b. Direct Gas-Phase Studies. As a follow-up to this report, Tevault et al.
(55) studied the reaction of H, with 0, on polycrystalline platinum in the range of to lop6 torr using LIF to detect OH- radicals in the gas phase.
A schematic of their experimental setup is shown in Fig. 3. Briefly, the reac- tant gases entered the reactor through the gas inlets and passed over a plati- num grid that was resistively heated to the desired temperature. The analysis was carried out downstream from the reactor by passing a laser beam through the gases perpendicular to the flow direction and analyzing the fluorescence normal to the plane of the beam and the gas flow direction.
The concentration dependency of the gas phase OH. radical production was studied by monitoring the OH. LIF intensity when the partial pressure of one of the gases was held constant and the other varied. A rapid increase in the
OH. signal intensity was observed as the H, pressure was increased up to a
H,:O, ratio of approximately 1:l. Further increases in the H, pressure resulted in a drastic decrease in the OH. signal intensity. When the 0,pressure was increased, a monotonic increase in the OH- signal intensity was observed which did not reach a maximum. n
I -
I S Y N C
0 1
- E
LI+
I to vacuum pump
FLOW
SIDE
CELL
VIEW
FIG.
3. Diagram of the apparatus used to detect gas-phase OH. radicals by LIF. The laser
output is filtered (F) and sampled by a beam splitter (BS) to a photodiode (PD). The OH. fluorescence is collected by lenses (L) and imaged onto a photomultiplier tube (PMT).
The PMT and PD signals are processed by an oscilloscope (OSC) and a multichannel analyzer (MCA).
From Tevault et al. (55).
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
153 These results were explained in terms of the following mechanism involving dissociatively adsorbed H, and 0, (56,57) on the polycrystalline Pt surface
H , + 2 *  -
2H*
(7 1 0 , + 2 *  - 20* (8) [Eqs. (7-1 l)].
H * + O *  -
O H * + *
H*+OH* -
H 2 0 + 2 *
OH* -
OH*(g)+ * (1 1) The "*" represents an active site on the metal surface. The observed H, effect may be understood by considering reactions (9) and (10).
As H, is introduced into the system, reaction (9) results in the rapid formation of adsorbed OH which is released into the gas phase by reaction (11). However, when the amount of adsorbed H becomes too large, reaction (10) is increased at the expense of reaction (1 l), resulting in a decrease in gas-phase OH. radical production. For oxygen a similar effect is not seen since the reaction analogous to Eq. (lo), Eq. (12),
O*+OH* -
HO;+*
(12) is unfavored at the high temperature and low pressure used in these experiments.
Measurements of the intensity of the OH. signal versus temperature were carried out over the temperature range of 590 to 760C. For an Ar:H,:O,(2230:
1:
12) mixture of constant total pressure (0.780 torr), an activation energy for the production of OH. radicals of 31 kcal/mol was calculated.
Uponchanging themixture toAr:H,:O, (198:l:l)at a total pressureof 0.270 torr the activation energy was 32 kcal/mol. These results indicate that the activation energy did not change significantly with changing gas pressure or composition; however, more recent results show that this is not generally the case.
Fujimoto et al.
(58) have measured the activation energy for the production of gas-phase OH- radicals in the H,/O,/Pt system at various H,:O, ratios.
They found that the activation energy depended greatly on the H,:O, ratio with a variation from 27 kcal/mol at O,/H, = 100 to about 51 kcal/mol for
02/H, =
0.037. They attributed this variation in activation energy to the
reactivity of H(ads) with labile OH(ads) species. At low hydrogen concen- trations very little reaction occurs between H(ads) and OH(ads), thus, the observed gas-phase OH. radicals are from all possible surface sites. As the amount of hydrogen is increased,the reaction of H(ads) with less tightly held OH(ads) causes the observed OH- radicals to be from the more tightly held surface sites. Hence, an increase in the activation energy is to be expected. 154 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al.
Hsu et al. (59) observed this same effect for the thermal desorption of OH. radicals from single-crystal Pt [ 11 11 and polycrystalline Pt foil surfaces.When the 0,/H, ratio was changed from 10 to 0.1, the activation energy for the production of OH- radicals increased from 27 to 36 kcal/mol for the Pt [ 1 1 11 surface and from 32 to 42 kcal/mol for the Pt foil.It should be noted that the activation energy obtained by Tevault et al. (55) was lower than the value previously obtained by the same group using the MI-LIF technique (17).The newer results were felt to be more accurate since they represented true steady-state gas-phase radical amounts, and also because of increased accuracy in the measurements due to modifications in the LIF analysis system.The catalytic decomposition of H,O over a polycrystalline Pt surface has been studied by Talley and Lin (18) using the LIF technique. At temperatures above 550C in a low-pressure flow system OH. radicals were detected in the gaseous products. An activation energy of 30 kcal/mol was determined for the production of gas-phase
OH-
radicals, which agrees very closely with the value obtained for the production of OH. radicals by H, oxidation on Pt (55).
The effects of adding H, and 0,to the reactant stream were studied, and results very similar to those obtained for the H, oxidation on Pt were found. A bell-shaped dependence for OH. concentration with increasing H, partial pressure was observed while a monotonic increase in OH - radicals with increasing 0, partial pressure occurred. It was suggested that the mechanism for gas-phase OH. radical formation is as follows [Eqs. (13 - 16)] :
H,O+2* -
O H * + H *
or
H,O+3* -
0 * + 2 H *
H * + O *  -
OH*
followed by
OH*
OH@)+ *
This mechanism is consistent with the one previously proposed for H,oxidation on Pt (55).
Other LIF studies on the oxidation of H ,
over Pt have been carried out using N,O (60),
NO (64,
and NO, (61) as oxidants and also with Pt-10% Rh as the catalyst (62).
The activation energies obtained for the production of gas-phase OH- radicals are listed in Table I. Since the activation energies observed for gas-phase radical production are independent of the source of the surface OH groups,except for the H,/NO, system,it was concluded that a value of 31 kcal/mol represented the activation energy of the OH desorption process (i.e., breakage of the Pt-OH bond).
The much lower activation energy obtained when NO, was used as the oxidant is attributed to the existence of another reaction pathway that led to
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
155
TABLE I
Activation Energies for OH Desorption from Polycrystalline Pt Surfaces" Reaction Catalyst Temperature ("C) E, (kcal/mol)
H2 +
N2O
Pt 566-750 28 f 2
H2 +
0 2 Pt 609-776 31 f 1
H2 +
0 2
Pt- 10% Rh 660-1 100 29 f 1
H 2 0
decomp. , Pt 596-811 30f 1
H2 + NO2
Pt 500-770 19f 1
H2 +
NO
Pt 500-1 100 b From Sanders and Lin (63). * No OH. radicals were detected. gas-phase OH. radicals. Also, the fact that the reaction of H, with NO did not produce detectable quantities of OH. radicals agrees with a process of nondissociative adsorption of NO on Pt (64,65).
As an extension of the previous studies the catalytic removal of OH. radicals by a polycrystalline Pt surface was investigated. Fujimoto et al. (58) used a microwave discharge to generate OH. radicals from H,O vapor in a low-pressure flow system. The radicals were then passed over a Pt surface and detected downstream using the LIF technique. The concentration of the OH. radicals was found to decrease rapidly as the temperature of the Pt increased from room temperature to approximately 625C. Above 675C a dramatic increase in OH. radicals was observed, probably due to the desorption of OH groups. From the observed radical amounts an apparent activation energy of
3.6 kcal/mol was obtained for the removal of gas-phase OH. by the
polycrystalline Pt.
The only surface other than platinum that has been studied by LIF for its ability to produce gas-phase OH- radicals is nickel. This system is a likely choice because of the interest in the presence of Ni-OH species upon the interaction of O,, H,, and H,O with clean Ni surfaces. Keiser et al. (66) measured the production of gas-phase OH - radicals following the reaction of H, and 0, (or the decomposition of H20) on polycrystalline nickel. At Ni temperatures greater than 575"C, OH - radicals were observed downstream of the catalyst. The production of OH - radicals increased almost linearly with increasing 0,partial pressure until it leveled off because of the saturation of the surface with oxygen atoms. Upon increasing the H, partial pressure the
OH. radical concentration increased significantly until the 0,
:
H2
ratio was
2:1, at which point the OH- concentration began to decrease. Since these
results are analogous to those observed with Pt as the catalyst, it was proposed that the same mechanism as that given by Tevault et al. (55) for the H2/0,/Pt system was applicable.
Activation energies were measured for the production of gas-phase OH. radicals from the H2/02 reaction and also from the decomposition of H20. 156 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al.
For the H,/O, reaction a value of 39 kcal/mol was obtained while for the H,O decomposition 37 kcal/mol was reported. Since the source of the OH. radicals did not greatly affect the activation energy it was felt that the desorption of OH from the surface (breakage of the Ni-OH bond) was the rate-controlling step. The similarities of these results with those for the Pt system should be noted.
The reaction o f CO and H, over Ni was also studied for the production of
OH. radicals. None of the mechanisms that have been proposed for this
methane synthesis reaction involves an Ni-OH intermediate (67) but they do involve H(ads) and O(ads), which could form surface OH groups. Using the LIF technique, no OH- radicals were detected for the CO/H,/Ni system at temperatures up to 1075C.
However, an observable OH. signal was obtained when 0,was added to the HJCO stream. These results indicate that the O(ads) concentration must be very low under the CO/H,/Ni reaction conditions, which agrees with results obtained previously using Auger electron spectroscopy (68). c. Internal Energy Studies. In order to completely understand the kinetics and dynamics of a chemical process, either homogeneous or heterogeneous,the internal energy distributions of reactants, intermediates, and products need to be known. Since high-resolution fluorescence spectra can be obtained using tunable dye lasers, the internal energy distributions of species studied using the LIF technique can be determined. Lin and co-workers (69,70) determined the internal energy distribution of OH - radicals desorbing from a polycrystalline Pt surface at 860C. They investigated the H, + O,, H,+ NO,, and H,O decomposition systems using the low-pressure flow system shown in Fig. 4 .
The reactant gases were allowed to flow over the Pt catalyst,and the detection of the OH. radicals was carried out immediately upstream of the catalyst to minimize rotational relaxation of the desorbed OH.. The Cu jacket was used to prevent radical reentry from the reactor walls. Experi- mental conditions were chosen to ensure that the OH. radicals were analyzed before encountering collisions in the gas phase.
A portion of the fluorescence spectrum is shown in Fig. 5. The relative rotational populations were determined from the intensities of the lines corresponding to the three rotational branches, R1,
R;,
and R,. For all systems studied the rotational energy distribution of the desorbed OH- radicals corresponded very closely to the catalyst temperature. It was not possible to obtain an accurate vibrational distribution; however, the results indicate that this also agreed with the catalyst temperature. These results can be explained if the rate of OH desorption from the Pt surface is slow compared to the rate of energy accommodation of the newly formed radical with the surface.
Hoffbauer et al. (71) in a recent study found that total energy accommoda- tion of the OH-radicals does not occur when a PtCl113 single crystal is used
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
157
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
_ . q P !
k I
I
I
I I
to pump
I
FIG.
4. Schematic cross sections of the cooled-shield reactor used to obtain internal energy
distributions. The fluorescence detection axis is perpendicular of the plane of the figure. The space enclosed by dashed lines is evacuated. From Sanders and Lin (63).
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
32600 595 590 585 580 575 5 7 0 565 560
X/CM-'
FIG.
5. Laser-induced fluorescence spectrum of OH. radicals obtained from the reaction of
H, and 0, over Pt at a total pressure of 4.4 mtorr and 860C. From Talley et al. (70). as the catalyst. Their results were scalable with Tadical/Kurface = 0.85. When a clean polycrystalline Pt foil was used they obtained similar results indicat- ing that the discrepancy with previous results was not due to a surface effect.
The higher pressures employed in the earlier studies are probably the main reason for the observed difference in radical and surface temperatures. 158 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al.
Recently, Rosen et al. (71a) studied the energy accommodation of the OH- radicals formed during the surface reaction o f Hz and 0,on a Pt foil. They reported an apparent desorption energy for OH. radicals o f 50 kcal/mol,which agrees with earlier results. However, the OH. rotational population gave a temperature of 250"C, while the catalyst temperature was 700C. This agrees qualitatively with the result of Hoffbauer et al. (71).
2. Detection and Study of Catalytically Generated . N H .  and N H , .  Radicals
In addition to OH. radicals many other intermediate species of interest in heterogeneous catalytic systems are capable of detection by laser-induced fluorescence.
An example of such intermediates is .NH. and NH,., whose role as intermediate species in the catalytic decomposition of ammonia on Pt or Fe is still questioned. Melton and Emmett (38) deduced from mass spectrometric results that NH2. was the major radical decomposition intermediate for NH,decomposition on either Pt or Fe, while other studies (72-74) have indicated that .NH. is the major intermediate.
In an attempt to gain more information on this process, Selwyn et al. (75,76) studied the interactions of .NH-, NH,., and NH3 with polycrystalline Pt and Fe surfaces. In these studies the LIF technique was employed to measure for these surfaces the removal of gas-phase radicals which were generated by microwave discharge of NH, and also the formation of radicals from the decomposition of NH3.
A loss of over 90% of the incident NH,. radicals was observed for Pt at room temperature. At higher temperatures the NH, - concentration dropped to an asymptotic level which represented the radicals not contacting the Pt surface. For .NH. radicals the results were quite different. No significant decrease in radical concentration was observed at room temperature, and as the Pt temperature increased, the .NH. intensity decreased until approx- imately 925"C, where the .NH - concentration began to rapidly increase.
This temperature represented the point at which .NH- radicals were being produced from the decomposition of NH, . The activation energies for -NH. and NH,. removal were found to be 2.4 and 0.90 kcal/mol, respec- tively, while a value of 66 kcal/mol was found for the production of .NH. radicals from the decomposition reaction.
Results using Fe as the catalyst were similar to those obtained with Pt. The .NH. radicals were produced at temperatures greater than 725C on this surface, and activation energies of 0.89 and 0.74 kcal/mol were found for the removal of .NH. and NHz. radicals, respectively. Two major differences should be noted in the results for the different surfaces. Platinum exhibited a surface-poisoning effect due to the accumulation of decomposition products on the surface while Fe did not. Also, the desorption of *NH. radicals was
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
159 observed for the reaction of N, with H, over Fe, but none were seen over Pt. In none of the studies was the production of NH,. radicals observed.
To explain these observations the following mechanism was proposed [Eqs. (17-21)]: N H , f 3 *  7
NH*+2H*
N H * + *  7
N * + H *
N * + N H *  -
N z + H * + *
N * + N *  -
N , + 2 *
H * + H *  -
H z + 2 * The most important point to note about this proposed mechanism is the simultaneous loss of two H atoms by the NH, .
Selwyn and Lin (77, 78) have also used LIF techniques to study the catalytic oxidation of NH, on polycrystalline Pt, which is a key industrial synthesis process for HNO, production. Many reactive intermediates have been postulated for this process such as HNO, .NH., NH,., N,H2, and NH,OH (79-82); however, direct evidence for their existence was lacking. Selwyn and Lin probed the product stream in a low-pressure flow system for .NH., NH,.,
OH., HNO, and NO, species produced by the oxidation of NH, on Pt. Only
.NH. and OH. radicals were observed under the experimental conditions employed. The -NH. radical was detected at catalyst temperatures above 875C while OH. radicals were seen above 525C. The addition of small quantities of 0, to the system inhibited strongly the formation of the .NH. radicals but the production of OH. increased monotonically with increasing 0,.
Increasing the NH, amount was found to inhibit the OH. production.
For -NH- production a desorption energy of 66 kcal/mol was obtained while for OH desorption the activation energy varied from 26 kcal/mol for
02/NH3
= 100 to 42 kcal/mol for O,/NH, = 1. By further decreasing the O,/NH, ratio to 0.03 the activation energy returned to 26 kcal/mol.
This variation in the OH desorption energy was attributed to competition between 0 and N atoms for surface sites.
These results were explained in terms of an atomic-radical mechanism involving key surface-stable species (H, N, -NH-,0,and OH.) instead of the molecular mechanism previously proposed by Fogel et al. (81).
3. Detection and Study of Surface-Generated PO Radicals
The catalytic decompositions of dimethyl methyl phosphonate (DMMP) and trimethyl phosphite (TMP) on polycrystalline Pt and Pt/Rh surfaces were studied by Lin and co-workers (82, 83) using the LIF technique. At tem- perature above 825"C, PO radicals were detected after desorbing from the Pt and Pt/Rh surfaces. Activation energies of 59 and 50 kcal/mol on Pt and 160 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al.
Pt/Rh, respectively, were reported for the desorption of these radicals in the temperature range 825- 1075C.
For the DMMP system surface deactivation of the catalyst occurred slowly at high temperatures, but it occurred rapidly in the TMP system. This deactivation was thought to result from the formation of phosphorous deposits on the surface. The addition of 0,to the TMP system resulted in the termination of PO radical formation, whereas the addition of small amounts of 0,initially increased PO production in the
DMMP
system.
It should also be noted that OH-radicals were observed when 0,was added to either system, indicating the presence of adsorbed H atoms.
Other possible reaction products, such as CH,O .,were not detected during the catalytic decompositions. Tentative mechanisms were presented for the decomposition reactions to explain these results and the reader is referred to the original article for additional information.
D. MATRIX-ISOLATION
EPR
1.
Early Studies The use of electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy for the detection and identification of surface species in heterogeneous catalysis is well documented (84,85);however, it was not until recently that this technique was extensively employed for the detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals during catalytic processes. When coupled with cryogenic trapping (matrix isolation) (49,50),this technique has proven extremely valuable, not only for the detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals, but also for providing new insight into overall reaction mechanisms.
During the mid and late 1970s several groups of Russian investigators carried out a number of studies using the matrix-isolation EPR technique to determine the possible existence of gas-phase free radicals during hetero- geneously catalyzed chemical processes. Almost all of these studies employed the experimental design, with slight modifications, initially reported by Panfilov (86) for the detection of free radicals generated in rarefied flames. In this system, gaseous products were trapped on a quartz cold finger (77 K) at low pressure which was positioned in the resonance cavity of an EPR spec- trometer. Spectra were then obtained using standard EPR techniques.
Shalya et al. (87) used this same technique to detect the formation of gas- phase radicals during the reaction of H, (80%) and 0,(20%) over a platinum catalyst. An EPR signal was observed and, based only on this signal, they concluded that gas-phase radicals were formed. The species responsible for this signal was not identified; however, it most likely was due to either OH. or HO,. radicals.
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
161 The formation of gas-phase peroxide radicals during the heterogeneous- homogeneous oxidation of methane on silica gel and alumina was studied by Nersesyan et al. (88).
They reported an EPR signal, for both catalysts, that resulted from the superposition of the spectra of two types of radicals: HO,. and RO,.. In another study the existence of gas-phase SO- radicals, formed during the catalytic reduction of SO, by CO over a bauxite catalyst, was demonstrated by Minasyan and Nalbandyan (89).
Garibyan et al. (90) utilized the matrix-isolation EPR technique to study the catalytic oxidation of methyl alcohol to formaldehyde on both supported and unsupported silver.
They obtained spectra which were attributed to the sum of radicals of the type RO., RO,., and HO,.. Whether or not the detected radicals were directly involved in the oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde was not established.
The catalytic decomposition of tert-butyl hydroperoxide on Pt was shown by Bagdasaryan et al. (91) to result in the formation of gas-phase RO,. radicals. This indicated that the catalytic decomposition occurred by a radical mechanism, such as that seen in the high-temperature homogeneous decom- position, instead of by a molecular mechanism.
Nalbandyan and co-workers utilized the matrix-isolation EPR technique to study the heterogeneously catalyzed decomposition of peracetic acid (92),methyl hydroperoxide (92),performic acid (93),and perproponic acid (94) on platinum. For all of these decomposition reactions they obtained radicals of the form RO,., where R is an alkyl group or a hydrogen atom. In addition,product analysis showed that the amounts of CO, obtained in the effluent stream were very close to the amounts of reactants decomposed. These results were explained in terms of the following mechanism [Eqs. (22-26)]: RCOOOH (g) - RCOOOH (ads) (22) RCOOOH (ads) -
RCOO.(ads) + OH.(ads)
(23)
RCOO. (ads) -
Re (ads) + CO,(24)
R. (ads) + 0, -
RO,. (ads) (25) RO,.(ads) - RO,.(g) (26) Additional evidence for this mechanism was obtained by using CO(g) as a diluent in the reactant stream. The twofold increase in the amount of CO, due to the reaction [Eq. (27)] OH(ads)+ CO(ads) - CO, + H-(ads) (27) proved the existence of the OH(ads) species.
The heterogeneous decomposition of H,O, on various solid surfaces,such as Pt, glass, silica, FeS, and Tic, has been investigated by Nalbandyan 162
DANIEL
J. DRISCOLL et al.
and co-workers (9.5-99). Surprisingly, for all surfaces studied, HO, - radicals were detected in the gas phase, instead of OH. radicals. The following mechanism was proposed to explain this observation [Eqs. (28-30)]: H,O, (ads) - 20H (ads) (28) OH (ads) + Hz02 (ads) - HO, (ads) + H,O (29) HO,(ads) - HO,.(g) (30) Proof of the existence of the OH(ads) species during the catalytic decom- position was obtained by the addition of CO to the H,O, reactant stream.
When this process was carried out using Pt as the catalyst, significant amounts of CO,were detected in the gaseous products, which agreed with the presence of adsorbed OH.
Although many of the previously mentioned studies also involved kinetic results, their primary contribution was in the detection of gas-phase radicals,which supplied direct evidence for the existence of heterogeneous- homogeneous catalytic processes.
2. Matrix-Isolation System
Recently, an efficient and versatile EPR matrix-isolation system was de- signed and built by Martir (20,100).
With this system it is possible not only to detect the formation of gas-phase radicals, but also to determine the amounts of the radicals produced. In addition, the versatility of the system allows a wide variety of different solids and gas reactants to be easily examined. A schematic of the system is presented in Fig. 6. Reactant gases enter the fused- quartz flow reactor (at 2), pass through a preheater, and are then allowed to
FIG.
6. Schematic of the EPR matrix-isolation and gas analyzer systems, coupled to the
catalytic reactor:(1) catalyst,(2) gas inlet,(3) thermocouple well, (4) pressure probe, (5) metal valve,(6) O-ring joints, (7) gate valve, (8) butterfly valve, (9) to vacuum pumps, (10) vacuum shroud,(1 1) sapphire rod, (12) microwave cavity, and (13) quadrupole mass spectrometer inlet. Reprinted with permission from Martir and Lunsford (20). Copyright 1981 American Chemical Society.
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
I63
contact the catalyst bed (at 1). The catalyst bed generally consists of a small quantity of catalyst chips (- 3 x 3 mm) dispersed in several layers of quartz wool. After reaction, desorbed species are carried downstream and trapped in a solid matrix, usually argon, on a sapphire rod maintained at a temperature of 16 K. Cryogenic cooling is provided by a Displex Model CSA 202 closed- cycle, two-stage refrigerator equipped with a standard EPR matrix-isolation vacuum shroud. Detection of surface-generated gas-phase radicals is accom- plished by lowering the rod, and matrix, into the microwave cavity (at 12) and then recording the EPR spectrum.
In most cases, a gas leak (at 4) is placed between the reaction section and the collection zone to create a pressure gradient. With this design the pressure in the reaction section is typically 1.0 torr, while in the collection zone the pressure is typically 2 x lo-' torr; however, by either removing or modifying the leak, pressures as low as 5 x torr or as high as 760 torr can be maintained in the reaction region.Spin concentrations (radical amounts) are obtained from double in- tegration of the recorded EPR spectrum of the unknown and a standard. In all instances, the standard, which is also used to determine g values, is a phosphorus-doped silicon chip that is permanently affixed to the sapphire rod. Although the system is primarily designed for the detection of surface- generated gas-phase radicals, stable product distributions can also be obtained from either mass spectrometer or gas chromatography analysis.In order to correlate the number of radicals detected in the matrix-isolation EPR experiments with the number of radicals actually present in the gas phase, the efficiency of the collection-detection system was determined.Nitrogen dioxide, derived from the gas-phase equilibrium [Eq. (3 l)],
2NO2 (9) -
N204
(8) (31) was chosen as the calibration molecule. An NO,/N,O,/Ar gas mixture was contained in a sample bulb of known volume that was equipped with a UV/visible cuvette. By measuring the absorbance at various wavelengths the partial pressures (moles) of NO, and N,04 in the sample bulb were accurately determined. The exact amounts of NO, and N,04 admitted upon sample injection were determined from absorbance values.
The calibration mixture was leaked into a low-pressure (- 1 torr) argon stream (5 cm3 STP/min) which then passed through a reactor at 140"C,resulting in the total decomposition of any N,04 to NO,. From the reactor the gaseous mixture passed directly, via the leak, into the collection region of the matrix-isolation EPR apparatus. The EPR spectrum of the NOz in the argon matrix was obtained, and the number of NO, molecules was quan- titatively determined. A collection-detection efficiency, defined as (mole- cules NO, detected/molecules NO, admitted) x 100, was then calculated. 164 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al.
Experimental results showed that l0-15% of the radicals present in the gas phase were actually being detected by the matrix-isolation EPR system.
3.
Ally1 Radicals In contrast to many of the previously reported works, which focused mainly on the detection of desorbed free radicals produced during high-temperature decomposition reactions, this system was designed primarily with the intent of identifying radical intermediates produced during heterogeneously catalyzed partial oxidation reactions. Thus, not surprisingly, the first reaction chosen for examination was the partial oxidation of propylene (20).
The catalysts se- lected for investigation here were Bi203, MOO,, a-bismuth molybdate (Bi,Mo,O,,), and y-bismuth molybdate (Bi,MoO,).
The possibility of ally1 radical formation during the partial oxidation of propylene over the bismuth molybdates was described in earlier sections (5,6,44-46; Scheme 1).
Over bismuth oxide the allyl radical also has been proposed as an intermediate; however, in this case radical coupling appeared to be the preferred pathway, which results in the formation of 1,5-hexadiene instead of acrolein (101).
In addition, a number of other earlier studies provided support for the participation of allyl radicals during the partial oxidation of propylene over other oxide catalysts. Infrared (102, 103) and electron spin resonance
(ESR) (104)
studies had revealed the presence of surface allyl radicals during the partial oxidation of propylene over ZnO, and mass spectrometry had demonstrated the presence of desorbed allyl radicals during this reaction over both ZnO (43) and manganese oxide (42,43).
These prior results obviously suggested that the allyl radical would be a likely intermediate over these catalysts also.
Although gas-phase allyl radicals were observed at 450"C, both with and without the metal oxide catalysts in the reactor, the concentration of the radicals was greatly enhanced by the presence of Bi,03 and y-bismuth molybdate. Small amounts of gas-phase oxygen resulted in an increased allyl radical concentration; however, larger amounts of 0, resulted in the formation of the corresponding allyl peroxy radical. The spectra of these two species are depicted in Fig. 7. A summary of radical concentrations, along with the amount of stable products, is presented in Table 11. In Table I1 the contribution of the homogeneous-Pyrex reactions has not been subtracted from the other values; thus, the lower radical concentrations observed for MOO, tend to indicate that this catalyst consumed radicals generated by the homogeneous-Pyrex reactions.
These results show that Bi,O, was by far the most effective catalyst for the production of gas-phase allyl radicals. The major stable product detected over this catalyst was, as expected, 1,5-hexadiene; however, of more importance was the agreement between the number of gas-phase allyl radicals detected by
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
165
FIG.
7. EPR spectra of gas-phase (A) allyl and (B) allyl peroxy radicals formed over Bi,O,.
EPR and the amount of 1J-hexadiene observed from stable product analysis.
This suggests that the major pathway for product formation is via allyl radical coupling in the gas phase rather than on the surface. The proposed mechanism is more clearly illustrated in Scheme 2. Previous investigators also suggested this as a possible route (101) to the formation of 1,Shexadiene; however, no direct evidence was given for the presence of gas-phase allyl radicals.
Gas-phase allyl radical formation over y-bismuth molybdate was consider- ably less than over Bi203.
This observation is in agreement with the earlier proposal that a reaction of the radical with the surface is favored over this material. Stable product analysis showed that the amount of acrolein formed over this catalyst was - lo3 greater than the amount of gas-phase radicals detected; thus, it is likely that overall, allyl radical formation was significantly higher on this material. Gas-phase allyl radical formation over a-bismuth molybdate appeared to be essentially zero. Stable product analysis showed that acrolein was produced over this catalyst, but its activity was a factor of - 10 less than the y-bismuth molybdate. This agrees with earlier studies in which y-bismuth molybdate also was found to be more active than a-bismuth molybdate (105).
Therefore, it is likely that over a-bismuth molybdate only a few allyl radicals are formed and only an undetectable quantity enters the gas phase.
The absence of gas-phase allyl radicals over MOO, is a somewhat different matter. Even when this material was placed downstream from the highly active Bi203 catalyst, relatively few radicals could be detected. In addition,stable product analysis showed that only extremely small amounts of acrolein were formed and no 1,5-hexadiene was produced. This obviously indicates that this oxide was acting as a sink for the allyl radicals. Haber and
TABLE I1
Radical Species and Product Distribution Obtained during the Oxidation of Propylene" Catalystb Bi,O,y-Bismuth molybdate a-Bismuth molybdate
MOO,
Homogeneous Pyrex Bi,O,/MoO, Radical amount (nmol) Stable products (nmol)' Allyl Allyl peroxy
1,SHexadiene Acrolein 3-Methylpentane
31.72
5.60
3.72
0.65
0.82
0.15
0.12
0.02
0.84
0.18
1.66
0 . 4 0
33.2
7.0
36.1
0.0
2920 2
31.0
0.0
311
24.3
0.0
25.0
38.7
0.0
3.5
,
51.6
0.0
37.0
34.6
' All of the reactions were carried out under the same experimental conditions, i.e., T = 450"C, collection period of cm3/s. The pressure in the 20 min, argon flow of 0.064 cm3/s, C,H, flow of 0.019 cm3/s and 0, flow of 3.76 x catalytic volume was 1 torr.All metal oxides were pretreated in the same manner (T = 525"C, Oz flow of 250 cm3/min, 3 h).
Similar product distributions within 25% error were obtained when the oxygen flow rates used were The Bi,O, catalyst was placed upstream from the MOO, catalyst.
1.7 x W4,
and 1.8 x lo-, cm3/s.
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
167 g$$v
1.5-hexadiene
SCHEME
2. Proposed mechanism for the formation of 1,5-hexadiene
over Bi,O,.
Grzybowska (106) had previously suggested that in the formation of acrolein over bismuth molybdate, allyl radicals were produced on bismuth oxide centers and then subsequently reacted on molybdenum centers to produce acrolein. The results obtained here clearly indicate that, if this is true, the functions of the two oxides are not simply additive. Some solid-state arrangement of bismuth, molybdenum, and oxygen sites, which exist on the bismuth molybdates, must be present to selectively convert propylene to acrolein.
It had also been suggested,based on previous studies, that the formation of allyl radicals, via hydrogen atom abstraction, was the rate-limiting step in the partial oxidation of propylene. The most convincing evidence to support this fact came from studies using deuterium-labeled propylene. If the hydrogen abstraction is rate limiting, then it should be possible to observe a primary kinetic isotope effect when the deuterated form of the molecule is used. Both Adams and Jennings (46) and Krenzke and Keulks (205) investigated this effect employing a variety of deuterated propylenes and several different bismuth molybdates, and the results showed that, when deuterium was substituted on the methyl carbon, a kinetic isotope effect was indeed observed.
Similar results were obtained by White and Hightower (107) for the partial oxidation of propylene over bismuth oxide. However, it is important to point out that these results were once again obtained indirectly from an analysis of the final product distribution and not from a direct measurement of the allyl radical concentration.
Using EPR matrix-isolation, Driscoll and Lunsford (21) were able to detect a primary kinetic isotope effect during the partial oxidation of C,H, and C3Ds over Bi,O, from direct radical analysis. The reaction was studied at a pressure of -1 torr over the temperature range of 365 to 475"C, and a summary of the results is presented in Table 111. The theoretical values,calculated using a method described by Melander (108), are only approxi- mations and are included for a comparison. Obviously, however, the values obtained here are well within the expected limits. 168
DANIEL
J. DRISCOLL et al.
TABLE I11
Kinetic Isotope Effect (kH/kD) during Radical Formation over Bi,O," Temperature ("C) Experimental Calculated 365
2.3
0.4
2.6
385
2.2 5 0.4
2.5
425
2.2 5 0.4
2.2
450
2.1 f
.
0.4
2.1
416
1.8 & 0.3
2.0
a Reprinted with permission from Driscoll and Luns- ford (21).
Copyright 1983 American Chemical Society.
O
f more importance is the relationship between these values and those obtained previously from an analysis of final products. White and Hightower (107) reported a value of kH/k, = 1.7 at 600C over Bi203. Adams and Jennings (46) had observed a value of kH/k, = 1.8 for C3D6 and C3H6 at 450C over Bi,Mo,O, and Krenzke and Keulks (105) determined kH/k, to be
1.7-1.8 at 450C and 1.5-2.2 at 350C using propylene-2,3,3,3-d4
over a series of bismuth molybdates. Considering that different reactants, catalysts and conditions were employed in each investigation, these results are all in remarkably good agreement.
Activation energies for radical formation were also obtained from direct radical detection. The apparent activation energies, over the temperature range of 365 to 475"C, for the formation of ally1 and the allyl-d, radicals, were found to be 16.1 k
1.6 and 17.6 k
1.8 kcal/mol, respectively. The value
obtained for C3H6 is in relatively good agreement with values determined earlier for this reaction from final product analysis (101,107),even though most of these studies were carried out under noncatalytic conditions (i.e., in the absence of oxygen).
Of special note is the good agreement with the values of activation energy determined for the partial oxidation of propylene over the bismuth molybdates. Activation energies for this reaction range from 14 to 18 kcal/mol (106,109).
This similarity in activation energies indicates that the pathway to the transition state in both cases is identical. Since no Mo-0 centers are present on Bi203,it was proposed that the Bi-0 centers must be responsible for H atom abstraction over both the bismuth molybdates and Bi203.
A similar conclusion had been reached by Haber and Grzybowska (106) in prior work.
The formation of other allylic-type radicals over Bi,03 and y-bismuth molybdate was briefly examined by Martir (100).
The reactants in this study were 1-butene, 2-butene, and isobutylene. No gas-phase free radicals were observed over the y-bismuth molybdate catalyst with any of these reactants.
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
169
H$=CH-CH2CH3
+ S
S
Y
4 \
,CH3
H3C-CH=CH-CH3 + S -H2C'
[ C
,
H
+Hb)
S
SCHEME
3. Common surface intermediate produced during the reactions of 1-butene and
2-butene over Bi,O,.
However, 1,3-butadiene and methacrolein were detected as stable products during the reactions of l-butene and isobutylene, respectively, which once again indicates that a surface reaction is favored on this material. The reaction of both 1-butene and 2-butene over Bi203,using 0,as the oxidant, resulted in the formation of nearly identical amounts of gas-phase l-methylallyl radicals.
To explain the similarity it was proposed that the reactions proceeded through a common surface intermediate before desorption. The suggested routes are presented in Scheme 3. The reaction of l-butene over Bi,O, using N,O as the oxidant resulted in the formation of gas-phase allyl radicals and small amounts of methyl radicals. This was believed to be due to preferred C-C bond scission on the highly reduced Bi,O, catalyst. The small yield of methyl radicals relative to the gas-phase allyl radicals was attributed to the numer- ous termination reactions that the methyl radicals undergo, such as hydro- gen atom abstraction, recombination, and addition reactions. All of these reactions are rapid with activation energies less than 6 kcal/mol in the tem- perature range employed here (110).
4. Alkyl Radicals
In order to understand the mode of activation of methane on metal oxide surfaces, a considerable effort has been devoted to the detection of surface- generated gas-phase radicals produced from methane. A preliminary survey conducted by Martir (100) demonstrated that gas-phase methyl radicals were produced during the reaction of methane (T = 25O-6OO0C, P = - 1 torr) over Al,O,, SiO,, and MgO, of which MgO was by far the most active. Reactions were carried out employing either 0, or N,O as the oxidant. No gas-phase methyl radicals were observed during these reactions over Bi203 or y-bismuth molybdate. In addition, no alkyl radicals could be detected when ethane,propane, or butane was passed over the latter catalysts.
The formation of gas-phase methyl radicals from methane over MgO has been more thoroughly examined by Lunsford and co-workers (111,112). 170 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al.
Conditioning studies showed that pretreatment of the MgO in 0, at high temperatures was necessary to produce an active catalyst. In addition, the presence of molecular oxygen in the reactant feed was also found to affect the activity for radical formation. These results are summarized in Fig. 8. During the initial stages of the reaction, gas-phase methyl radicals were produced when either O2 or N,O was employed as the oxidant, with radical formation in the presence of 0, being slightly greater. With time, however, radical production in the presence of N,O rapidly declined according to first-order kinetics with the half-life, in the best case, being approximately 1.9 h.
Molecular oxygen, on the other hand, was capable of promoting catalytic radical formation. Even after 9 days onstream, the activity decreased only slightly.
The apparent activation energy for this reaction was determined, over the temperature range of 500 to 550"C, to be 42 f 6 kcal/mol.
Doping studies demonstrated that addition of lithium greatly increased the concentration of gas-phase methyl radicals, whereas addition of sodium or iron had no effect on the activity. The effect of lithium doping is illustrated in Fig. 9. Activity increased up to a doping level of approximately 13.5 wt% TIME (h)
FIG.
8. The amount of methyl radicals formed as a function of time on stream. Concentra-
tions are given as the natural log of the total number of spins. Except for the flows, all reactions were carried out under the following conditions: catalyst, MgO, T = 5WC, collection period,25 min, 0.50 g of catalyst. Preconditioned at 450C. 2.5 h, 300 cm3/min 0,.
Flows: In all reac- tions CH, flow was 1.14 cm3/min; (a) Ar, 0, N,O, 3.8 cm3/min; (b) Ar, 3.8 cm3/min, N,O,
0.023
cm3/min; (c) Ar, 3.8 cm3/min,
N,O, 0.30
cm3/min;(d) Ar, 3.8 cm3/min,0,,
0.30 cm3/min;
(e) Ar, 3.8 cm3/min, 0,,
0.023 cm3/min. Reprinted with permission from Driscoll et al. (112).
Copyright 1985 American Chemical Society.
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
171 (- 50 mol%) with radical amounts increasing by a factor of roughly 15 from the pure MgO sample.
At this point it is of value to consider the mechanism for radical formation.
The fact that molecular oxygen was required both to generate and maintain radical production obviously suggested that some oxygen species was promoting the activity. EPR analysis of the used, active MgO catalysts, of low surface area, revealed the presence of bulk 0- centers. In a previous study by Aika and Lunsford (113) it was concluded that during the stoichiometric reaction of methane with 0- on MgO, hydrogen atom abstraction was the initial step in the mechanism, but radicals were not detected either on the surface or in the gas phase. Related EPR studies, however, have shown that surface methyl radicals are produced during the reaction of methane with 0- ions on Mo/SiO, (114,115) and ZnO (116).
Therefore, it was proposed that thermally produced surface 0- ions were catalytically formed during reaction,and these species were responsible for methyl radical formation. The thermal production of 0- on MgO had been previously suggested, but the signal had remained undetected by EPR (117).
The increased activity on the lithium-doped MgO (Li/MgO) was believed to be due to the formation of [Li'O-] centers. Prior EPR and electron Li Iwt. %I
FIG.
9. The amount of radicals and [Li'O-] centers formed as a function of lithium doping
into MgO. All reactions were carried out under the following conditions: T = 5WC, collection period,25 min(after4 honline),0.50gcatalyst,argonflow,
3.8cm3/min,CH,flow, 1.14cm3/min,
0, flow, 0.023 cm3/min. Preconditioned at 450"C, 2.5 h, 300 cm3/min 0,.
The samples were quenched in liquid nitrogen after a 2-h exposure to air at 700C. Reprinted with permission from Driscoll et al. (112).
Copyright 1985 American Chemical Society. 172 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al. nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) studies by Abraham and co-workers (118-120) and Rius and Herve (121) had demonstrated that it is possible to detect these centers in single crystals of Li/MgO by heating them to temperatures of 1000-1300C in the presence of 0, and then rapidly quenching to 77 K. It should be noted that the ionic radii of Li' and Mg" are nearly identical (0.68 versus 0.66 A,respectively), and this close agreement is believed to be an important factor in the formation of these centers (122).Corresponding quenching studies showed that [Li' O-] centers were also present in the powder Li/MgO samples employed for radical formation at temperatures as low as 400C (112,123). Centers produced at the lower temperatures (400-650C) were quickly destroyed upon warming to room temperature; however, by repeating the oxygen pretreatment the [Li'O-] centers were regenerated, which provides evidence for the catalytic nature of these sites.The intensity o f the [Li'O-] signal varied with respect to the Li content in a manner remarkably similar to that found for the production of CH,. radicals, as depicted in Fig. 9. The major difference was that no [Li'O-] signal was detected, as expected, in the absence of any added lithium, whereas the pure MgO exhibited a small amount of intrinsic activity for methyl radical formation. This close agreement obviously provides further support for the participation of these sites in radical formation.The following catalytic cycle can be written to describe the mechanism for radical formation over both MgO and Li/MgO [Eqs. 32-35]:02- 02- 02- 02- 0'- 0 0-
+ CH,
02- 0
OH- + CH,.
or 02- 02- 02- 02- 02-Li+O- + CH, - 02-Li+OH- + CH,.
(33) 02- 02- 2 02-Li+OH- 0 2 - L i + 0 2 -  + 0 2 - L i +
+ H,O
(34) [ ::: 1 02- 02- 02- 0 2 - 02-
O2
- +O2-Li+ .++o, - 2 O*-Li+O- (35) Over pure MgO, 0- ions associated with intrinsic cation vacancies are responsible for methyl radical formation. In addition to these sites [Li'O-] centers are formed on the lithium-doped samples, and these are responsible for [ ]
02-L1+02-
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
173 the increased activity on the doped material. It is important to point out that,unlike the case with the transition metal oxides, no variation in the oxidation state of the metal is required. Thus, the Li/MgO system is a new type of oxidation catalyst.
Although the generation of gas-phase methyl radicals may at first seem unfavorable on the basis of energetics, one should note from the mechanism that the breaking of a C-H bond occurs simultaneously with the formation of an O-H bond of essentially equivalent strength. Thus, energy is conserved during the process. The overall conversion of CH, and 0,to C,H, or C,H,and H,O is, of course, exothermic.
The formation of stable products during the reaction of CH, and 0, over Li/MgO has been examined by Lunsford and co-workers (124, 125) under more conventional catalytic conditions (T = 50O-75O0C, P = 760 torr).
Under flow conditions, the reaction was found to be catalytic with the primary stable products being C,H,, C2H4, and C02.
In the best case, methane conversion reached - 40% with a combined C, selectivity of - 50%. These are also the best combined conversion and selectivity values yet reported for this reaction in a continuous catalytic mode.
Based on the previous matrix-isolation EPR studies (112),it was proposed that selective C, products were produced via a mechanism involving surface- generated gas-phase methyl radicals. The mechanism is presented in the following reactions [Eqs. (36-39)]: A coupling of the two CH, . radicals, probably in the gas phase but near the surface, produces C,H, (126,127).
Further reaction of C,H6 with surface 0- and 0,- ions results in the formation of ethylene. The formation of nonselective products (CO and CO,) is not entirely clear; however, it is generally believed that they result primarily from surface reactions of the methyl radicals.
Preliminary studies have been conducted to correlate radical production with methane conversion during this reaction and the results are summarized in Table IV. The values for radical production and CH, conversion differ by a factor of approximately 5; however, this discrepancy is believed to be due to error in the escape efficiency value which arises from differences in experi- mental conditions. Experiments to more accurately determine the escape efficiency are being carried out. 174 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al.
TABLE IV
Comparison o f Rates o f Radical Collection and Ooerall Methane Conversion
Rate of radical collection at 620"C,
1.5 x lo', molecules/g.s
7-wt% Li/MgO, 98.8-torr CH,, 9.3-torr 0, Collection efficiency 10% Escape efficiency (from catalyst particle) 30% Rate of radical production Rate of CH, conversion at 620"C,
5.0 x 10" molecules/g.s
2.4 x loL6
molecules/g.s 7-wt% Li/MgO, 99-torr CH,, 9-torr 0, Conventional flow reactors are operated at atmospheric pressure with moderate conversions, whereas the EPR matrix-isolation system is normally operated at pressures less than 1 torr and at very low conversions. In an attempt to obtain data from the EPR matrix-isolation system at atmospheric pressure, gases were allowed to flow over the catalyst and out of valve 5, Fig. 6.
The pressure probe, 4, was modified to allow for the transfer of approximately 3 cm3 STP/min of the effluent gases, directly after contact with the catalyst bed, into the low-pressure collection region.
Using this design, methyl radicals were observed when an Ar:CH,:O,mixture (7.3:2:1,total flow = - 20 cm3 STP/min) was passed over a Li/MgO catalyst at 625C. Radicals were not observed when the process was repeated in the absence o f a catalyst. Other studies demonstrated that the number of methyl radicals detected increased with increasing argon flow rate, which indicates that large quantities of the CH, - radicals are undergoing reactions in the region between the catalyst bed and the pressure probe. The increased argon flow decreases the residence time of the radicals and also dilutes the system, thus a smaller fraction of the gas-phase radicals reacts in this region.
The ultimate goal of this system is to determine whether a correlation exists between the number of CH,. radicals observed and the CH, conversion or C,selectivity as measured in a conventional flow reactor.
Catalysts other than Li/MgO have been shown to be effective for the activation of methane. Lunsford and co-workers (128),using the EPR matrix- isolation technique, found that La203 generates approximately two times as many methyl radicals than 7-wt% Li/MgO at 500C and almost four times as many radicals at 600C. They also reported that the effect of removing oxygen from the reactant stream was greatly different for the two catalysts. The absence of O2 in the reactant stream resulted in almost no CH,. radical production when La203 was the catalyst, whereas with Li/MgO fairly high residual activity was observed for several minutes after 0, was deleted from the gas stream. This difference is thought to result from different active sites for the hydrogen abstraction: [Li'O-] centers for the Li/MgO catalyst versus some form of sorbed O,, such as O;, for the La203 catalyst.
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
175 Results obtained in a conventional flow reactor showed qualitative agreement between the formation of gas-phase CH,. radicals and the overall conversion of methane. The overall conversion using La203 as the catalyst was about eight times that of Li/MgO when compared at 625C and similar reactant pressures. However, the C2 selectivity was much less over La203 than that observed for the Li/MgO catalyst. This was true even when the reaction was carried out under conditions that resulted in comparable conversions.
Recently, Otsuka et al. (129) reported the activities and selectivities of the lanthanide oxides for the conversion of methane to ethane and ethylene. Their results were obtained using a conventional flow reactor with conditions that favored low conversions and high C, selectivities.
Currently the EPR matrix- isolation system is being used to study the formation of CH,. radicals over these oxides. Preliminary results are presented in Table V. The results obtained thus far do not agree in detail with the trends reported by Otsuka et al. (129);however, the large changes in activities associated with different histories of the oxides, such as that observed for Sm203,make a direct comparison of the results difficult.
In a recent study, Driscoll and Lunsford (130) employed EPR matrix- isolation to survey the relative efficiency of different catalysts to promote hydrogen atom abstraction. In this work, five oxides (Bi,O,, y-Bi,O,. MOO,, PbO, MgO, and Li/MgO), known to be active for the production of gas-phase radicals, were compared in their ability to promote the formation of surface- generated gas-phase radicals from methane, ethane, ethylene, and propylene.
TABLE V
Relative Activities for the Production o f Methyl Radicals" Relative activity (per g)b Relative activity (per m2)* Oxide Received' Convertedd Received' Convertedd 100 1578 100 178 CeO,
1.8
2.6
0.6
0.7
Nd203 330 694
73.9
81.5
Eu203 172 27 1
24.5
66.7
Ho203
38.5
24
7.7
6.5
Sm,O,256 407
43.5
150 Gd203
24.2
58
11.5
33.4
a Reaction conditions: T = 600"C, total pressure = 1 torr, collection period of 30 min. Flows (cm3/min): Ar, 3.8;
CH,, 1.08; 0,,
0.023. Catalyst pretreated
at 600C under flowing 0,.
Relative values based on an assigned value of 100 for La,O, (received).
Oxide used as received from the manufacturer.
Oxide was converted to the hydroxide and then regenerated as the oxide during the pretreatment.
TABLE VI
Radical Production over Various Oxide Catalystsu.b Radical amount (nmolig) Bi,O,
0.35
17.90 (51.
I)d e
0.056 (0.16)
e y-Bi,O,.MoO,
1.2
6.50 (5.4)
0 0 0 PbO(
I)
0.13
2.80 (21.5)
0
0.010 (0.08)
0 PbO(II)g
0.43
13.24
(30.8) 0
0.036 (0.08)
h Mg 0
159.2
14.82 (0.1)
2.16 (0.01)
3.54 (0.02)
CH *(0.066)
14.6-wtX Li/MgO
29.8
65.52 (2.2)
10.78 (0.36)
38.18 (1.28)
CH
,-(O. 184)
Reprinted with permission from Driscoll and Lunsford (130).
Copyright 1985 American Chemical Society.
Reactant and C-H bond strength is kilocalories/mole.
Numbers in parentheses are radical amounts based on surface area (nmol/m2).
Trace amounts of CH,. and CH,O,. were detected.
Preconditioned at 450"C, 2.5 h, 300 cm3/min 0,(chips).
Preconditioned under vacuum (powder).
I, A weak, unidentified signal was detected. * Reactions carried out at 475"C, collection period, 30 min. Flows (cm3/min): Ar, 3.8; OZ,
0.024 hydrocarbon, 1.08.
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
177 The results of this study, along with the specific surface areas of the oxides and the bond strength of the most labile hydrogen atom of the hydrocarbons (122),are presented in Table VI.
All of the oxides examined were capable of promoting gas-phase ally1 radical formation from propylene which, based on C-H bond strengths,contained the most easily abstracted hydrogen atom of the four hydrocar- bons. As the C-H bond strength increased to 98 and 104 kcal/mol, for ethane and methane, respectively, only MgO and Li/MgO appeared to be active for hydrogen atom abstraction. None of the oxides were capable of producing gas-phase vinyl radicals (CzH3 -) from ethylene, which has the strongest C-H bond.
These observations were explained by considering the nature, and number,of the active sites on the various oxides. The Biz03 and PbO catalysts apparently contain a significantly large number of active sites per unit of surface area but are only capable of promoting gas-phase radical formation from hydrocarbons with C-H bond strengths I 89 kcal/mol. The active sites on these species are most likely lattice 0'- ions in sites of low coordination (I).These ions are also responsible for radical formation on y-Bi,03-Mo03,but due to the favored surface reaction to produce acrolein the gas-phase radical concentration remains low. The MgO and Li/MgO catalysts contain fewer active sites per unit of surface area but are capable of promoting gas-phase radical formation from hydrocarbons with bond strengths as high as 104 kcal/mol. As previously mentioned, the active sites on MgO and Li/MgO are believed to be surface 0- ions and [Li'O-] centers, respectively.The absence of gas-phase vinyl radicals during the reaction of ethylene over MgO and Li/MgO can be explained by considering the unique reactivity of ethylene with 0; on MgO. Previous investigations have shown that ethylene readily reacts with 0;ions on MgO at room temperature (131).The reaction is believed to proceed via a surface intermediate, which has been detected by
EPR (132,133),
formed through the process:
H2C=CH2 + 0%- -
H,C=CH- + OH;
(40)
H,C=CH* + 0, -
H,C=C-*----
OH;
(41) Although vinyl radicals have been proposed as intermediates in this process,their presence has never been detected either on the surface or in the gas phase.
Since ethylene has a relatively large C-H bond strength (- 108 kcal/mol), the formation of free vinyl radicals may be energetically unfavorable. (The strength of the 0-H bond formed is - 105 kcal/mol.) Therefore, the driving force for the reaction includes complex formation between the vinyl radical and surface 02- ions. Apparently the lifetime of the vinyl radical is too short to permit detection. The trace amounts of methyl radicals probably result from decomposition of this surface species. 178
DANIEL
J. DRISCOLL et al.
The lower ethyl radical concentrations relative to methyl radicals (the C-H bond strength of CH, is 6 kcal/mol greater than C2H,) may be due to formation of a similar surface species. However, these lower concentrations may also be attributed to the unimolecular decomposition of ethyl radicals, to ethylene and hydrogen atoms (134).
The formation of gas-phase methyl radicals during the catalytic combus- tion of methane on Pt/Si02 and Pt single crystals was briefly examined by Berlowitz et al. (135) using EPR matrix-isolation. No increase in the amount of gas-phase methyl radicals over the background was detected on either material. Thus, it was concluded that the role o f the Pt catalyst in the catalytic combustion of methane is to provide a catalytic surface for the reaction of CH, and 02,and not to facilitate the gas-phase reaction by generating free radicals.
Mendelovici and Lunsford (236) employed EPR matrix-isolation to detect radical intermediates involved in the partial oxidation of ethane to ethylene and acetaldehyde over Mo/Si02. During reaction in the presence of the oxidant, N,O, gas-phase C,H, - radicals were observed; whereas, in the absence of oxidant no radicals were detected. It was therefore concluded that ethyl radicals were most likely involved in the mechanism. It is important to point out that the amount of radicals detected was extremely low, which is consistent with the proposed surface mechanism.
In a recent study by Kolts and Delzer (137),surface-generated gas-phase ethyl radicals were detected by EPR matrix-isolation during the selective cracking of n-butane over an Mn/MgO catalyst. This observation, once again,led to the conclusion that these species were involved in the reaction mechanism. In contrast to the preceding work by Mendelovici and Lunsford (236),the number of ethyl radicals released from this surface was relatively large. This indicated that the reaction was proceeding primarily via a mechanism involving desorbed ethyl radicals.
5. Benzyl Radicals
The production of surface-generated gas-phase benzyl radicals during the reaction of toluene over Bi,O,, PbO,, and MgO was briefly examined by Driscoll (138) with the EPR matrix-isolation technique. These species had been previously proposed as intermediates during the heterogeneously catalyzed dehydrodimerization of toluene to form stilbene, which is the first step in a process to produce styrene from toluene and ethylene (239-142). An EPR signal was observed from this reaction over all three catalysts; however,the signal could not be adequately resolved to permit a definite assignment.
Thus the question as to whether or not benzyl radicals are involved in the mechanism of toluene dehydrodimerization to stilbene still remains unresolved.
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
179 The preceding discussion has clearly demonstrated that EPR matrix isolation, when used in tandem with a flow reactor, is a very useful and sensitive technique for detecting the presence of gas-phase radical species which emanate from a solid surface during a catalytic reaction. In addition,these studies have also shown that the data obtained from detection of these surface-generated radicals can be used to establish individual steps in the overall reaction mechanism, including the mechanism for radical formation and the nature of the active site on the catalyst surface. Hopefully, future studies with this technique will provide even more detailed information on heterogeneously catalyzed reaction systems.
E. PHOTOELECTRON
SPECTROSCOPY
Photoelectron spectroscopy (PES) has been used to detect transient gas- phase species such as silicon difluoride (143, 144),to optimize heterogeneously catalyzed reactions such as the bromination of trifluoromethane (145) and to observe the formation of surface species such as alkoxides formed by the adsorption of alcohols on a Cu[llO] face (146).
Although PES has a high selectivity for the detection of gas-phase organic free radicals in the presence of the parent molecules due to the generally lower ionization potentials of the organic radicals, only one study has been reported in which PES was used to monitor gas-phase organic free radicals formed during a heterogeneously catalyzed process.
Houle and Beauchamp (147,148) modified a photoelectron spectrometer of standard design to obtain the photoelectron spectra of organic gas-phase free radicals that were produced by pyrolyses of the parent hydrocarbons. A schematic of the spectrometer is shown in Fig. 10.
Gas samples to be analyzed were passed into the vacuum chamber through the pyrolyzer, which consisted of a 3-mm-id quartz tube; the final 2-cm section of the tube was nonin- ductively heated. The hot gases traveled 0.75 cm after leaving the pyrolyzer before intersecting the photon beam from the He1 lamp.
Schultz and Beauchamp (16) utilized this modified photoelectron spec- trometer to study the heterogeneously catalyzed formation of gas-phase organic radicals. The study was carried out by packing the quartz pyrolyzer with chips of the catalyst of interest, Bi,O,, and passing the gaseous reactant mixtures through it at elevated temperatures.
When oxygen and propylene in a 1 :5 ratio (total pressure in the catalyst bed was - lo-' torr) were passed through the Bi203 at 75OoC,a yield of 1% ally1 radicals was detected, which agreed with the earlier results obtained using matrix-isolation EPR (20,21, 130).In order to test the generality of the ability of Bi,03 to abstract allylic hydrogens, isobutylene was substituted for the propylene. Under the same 1 8 0
DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et al. 1
127" ELECTROSTATIC ANALYZER
CHANNELTHON
HOUSING
HELIUM
CAPILLARY
-/
DISCHARGE LAMP
FIG.
10. Schematic of photoelectron spectrometer used for the detection of surface-
generated gas-phase radicals. Reprinted with permission from Houle and Beauchamp (147).
Copyright 1978 American Chemical Society. experimental conditions a 2% yield of 2-methylally1 radicals, relative to isobutylene, was detected. The formation of the 2-methylallyl radical was shown to be an activated process since the radical formation increased monotonically over the temperature range of 650-750C. However, the results were not quantitative enough to allow the determination of an activation energy.
The effect of oxygen partial pressure on the rate of hydrogen abstraction was examined by varying the oxygen to isobutylene ratios. For ratios between
1:4 and 1:8 the amount of 2-methylally1
radicals detected was constant and only when oxygen amounts were very low (e.g., 1 :100) was the production of 2-methylallyl radicals greatly decreased. These results are consistent with a mechanism in which molecular oxygen is used to replenish surface oxide ions removed during the catalytic process.
The ability of Bi,03 to abstract labile hydrogens other than allylic was examined using toluene, cycloheptatriene, trimethylsilane, and trimethyl-
SURFACE-GENERATED GAS-PHASE RADICALS
181 amine. For toluene, trimethylsilane, and trimethylamine none of the radicals expected from the abstraction of hydrogen atoms was observed. The absence of gas-phase radicals during the reactions of trimethylsilane and trimethyl- amine was somewhat unexpected since the calculated energetics for radical formation, in both cases, are favorable. With cycloheptatriene a 2% yield of tropyl radicals was detected at 760C;however, the major reaction was the isomerization of approximately half the cycloheptatriene to toluene.
F. RESONANCE-ENHANCED
MULTIPHOTON
IONIZATION
Multiphoton ionization (149-151) is a relatively new analytical technique which uses the high intensity of lasers to cause atoms or molecules to absorb more than one photon and eject an electron. In the process, ionization occurs by the simultaneous absorption of photons whose total energy exceeds the ionization potential of the particle. The ionization efficiency is greatly increased if the absorption of an integral number of photons is close to the energy of an eigenstate of the atom or molecule. Under these conditions the process is referred to as resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization
(REMPI)
or resonance ionization spectroscopy (RIS).
Gas-phase methyl radicals, which do not fluoresce, cannot be observed by such sensitive means as laser-induced fluorescence. However, DiGiuseppe et al. (152) have shown that they can be detected, quite accurately, using the technique of mass-selected resonance-enhanced multiphoton ionization. In this process the REMPI technique is used as the ionizing source for a mass analyzer system.
Squire et al. (19, 153) studied the decomposition of trimethylaluminum (TMA) on copper, quartz, and gallium arsenide surfaces between 225 and 625C under low-pressure conditions. They employed the mass-selected laser multiphoton ionization (MPI/MS) technique to test for methyl radicals and aluminum species in the gas phase and electron impact mass spectrometry (EI/MS) to analyze for stable products. The experiment was carried out by bleeding a mixture of TMA, diluted in He or HZ,onto the heated surface which was at a 45" angle to both the gas flow and the axis of a quadrupole mass spectrometer. Analysis for intermediates and products involved passing some of the product gas into an ionizing region and then mass analyzing the resulting ions using a quadrupole mass spectrometer. The ionization was achieved using either electron impact or laser multiphoton ionization.
For all the surfaces studied only CH,. radicals were observed in the gas- phase products. An apparent activation energy of 13 kcal/mol, which was independent of the surface material, was reported for the production of CH,. radicals. No methane or ethane production was observable in the product 182 DANIEL J. DRISCOLL et d. gases, which indicated that radical hydrogenation or recombination did not occur on the surfaces during the decomposition. These results were explained by a mechanism in which TMA aluminum atoms interact with surface metal atoms to form bonds which aid in the breakage of one or more of the Al-CH,bonds.
111.
Summary and Prospects The presence of surface-generated gas-phase radicals is now well es- tablished for many catalytic decomposition and oxidation reactions. The radicals generally are observed at reaction temperatures in excess of 4WC,and in some cases temperatures of approximately 800C are required. The surface-generated radicals may be significant as (1) initiators of chain reactions, (2) intermediates in gas-phase coupling reactions, (3) a means for the transport of intermediates from one surface to another, (4) experimental evidence for a radical mechanism, and ( 5 )  a means of determining the rate- limiting step of a catalytic cycle. Even qualitative results are useful in several of these applications; however, more quantitative data are needed to establish whether gas-phase radical coupling is indeed a primary pathway for product formation.
The practical utilization of this source of gas-phase radicals will in many cases require the design of reactors and catalyst-bed configurations so as to maximize the desired reactions. It may, for example, be important to operate at short contact times, with the catalyst at much higher temperatures than the gas phase, or, in order to achieve high selectivity for the partial oxidation of alkanes, it may be necessary to operate in a pulse mode so that the alkyl radicals do not react with gas-phase molecular oxygen. Clearly, development of processes involving these gas-phase radicals will be based upon the fundamentals of catalytic chemistry, traditional chemical kinetics, and reactor engineering.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides, discussing both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X20211200

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.90%

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 