<quotes>

[1] "Although the steam reforming process is now widely used in the modern chemical industry, other alternative routes to process methane are still quite challenging. Such alternative processes include, among others, the direct conversion of methane to other valuable chemicals or the dry CO2 reforming which not only reduces greenhouse emission but also produces a H2/CO mixture with a H2/CO ratio adequate for the FischerTropsch process."
[2] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
[3] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
[4] "The calculated CHC dissociation barrier is 138 kJ mol1, higher than the dehydrogenation barrier to form CHC, indicating possible accumulation of CHC during this conversion, which is in good agreement with experimental observations."
[5] "The reason is that DFT results discussed here did not include thermodynamic correction, which would significantly reduce the free energy barrier for desorption steps due to the large entropy of gas phase propylene compared with the adsorbed ones."
[6] "The combination of both effects shifts up the D2 barrier on ad-atom."
[7] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
[8] "The presence of this easily accessible side reaction significantly lower the efficiency of ethane ODH, which was suggested to be the reason for the low ODH activity of ethane on V2O5."
[9] "The direct removal of the H, either as H2 or H2O, to regenerate the O site of the catalyst is difficult and will eventually decrease the activity of the catalyst."
[10] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
[11] "The calculated results are in line with experimental studies which indicate that the decomposition of methanol leads to the formation of carbonaceous species at the near-edge sites of the Pd catalyst."
[12] "It has been demonstrated, in accordance with experimental observations, that the performance of the dehydrogenation process is the best, if the ratio between the H2 pressure and the alkane pressure is between 1 and 10."
[13] "The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. Alternative routes to process methane, such as direct conversion to other valuable chemicals or dry CO2 reforming, are still challenging. The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides. The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, weakening the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms, resulting in an increase of the dissociation barrier height. The calculated CHC dissociation barrier is higher than the dehydrogenation barrier to form CHC, indicating possible accumulation of CHC during conversion. The thermodynamic correction would significantly reduce the free energy barrier for desorption steps due to the large entropy of gas phase propylene compared with the adsorbed ones. The combination of effects shifts up the D2 barrier on ad-atom. The lower reactivity on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt. The presence of easily accessible side reactions significantly lowers the efficiency of ethane ODH, which is suggested to be the reason for the low ODH activity of ethane on V2O5. The direct removal of H, either as H2 or H2O, to regenerate the O site of the catalyst is difficult and will eventually decrease the activity of the catalyst. The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed. The decomposition of methanol leads to the formation of carbonaceous species at the near-edge sites of the Pd catalyst. The performance of the dehydrogenation process is the best if the ratio between the H2 pressure and the alkane pressure is between 1 and 10. The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, leading to different environments of given sites and a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study. Support modification strategies can be employed to optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity, such as alloying, doping, and adjusting the particle size and shape.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化剂的物理化学性质，包括化学品质（如酸强度和稳定性）和形态特征，对脱氢反应的性能有重大影响。甲烷的替代处理路线，如直接转化为其他有价值的化学品或干CO2重整，仍然具有挑战性。通过添加促进剂，如晚期过渡金属、主族金属（包括Sn和Ga）、碱金属氧化物和稀土金属氧化物，可以提高对焦炭的抵抗力。Au原子的存在会降低合金的d带，削弱CH键的σ*与表面金属原子的d态之间的相互作用，导致解离能垒升高。计算得到的CHC解离能垒高于形成CHC的脱氢能垒，表明在转化过程中CHC可能积累。热力学修正会显著降低气相丙烯与吸附态相比的自由能垒。两种效应的结合提高了ad-atom上的D2能垒。PtSn合金的较低反应性（即较高的脱氢能垒）是由于其d带中心较深。容易获得的副反应显著降低了乙烷ODH的效率，这被建议为乙烷在V2O5上ODH活性低的原因。直接去除H，无论是作为H2还是H2O，以再生催化剂的O位点是困难的，最终会降低催化剂的活性。这种位点上中间体的弱结合有利于H2的解吸。考虑到这两种相反的影响，计算表明AlAl距离为453 pm时，总体能垒最小，基于萨巴蒂尔原理提出了一个简单的结构-活性相关性。甲醇的分解导致钯催化剂近边缘位点上碳质物种的形成。如果氢气压力与烷烃压力之比在1到10之间，脱氢过程的性能最佳。颗粒与支撑之间的晶格失配导致颗粒和表面位点之间相对位置的偏移，导致给定位点的不同环境，以及单个研究中需要考虑的大量可能性。可以通过优化这些性质来增强催化效率和选择性，例如合金化、掺杂和调整颗粒大小和形状。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
