<quotes>

[1] "Although the steam reforming process is now widely used in the modern chemical industry, other alternative routes to process methane are still quite challenging. Such alternative processes include, among others, the direct conversion of methane to other valuable chemicals or the dry CO2 reforming which not only reduces greenhouse emission but also produces a H2/CO mixture with a H2/CO ratio adequate for the FischerTropsch process."
[2] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
[3] "The later developed revised PBE functional (RPBE17) improves the reproducibility of experimental binding energies for surface species."
[4] "The energetics obtained directly from DFT calculations describe the potential energy surface at 0 K and 0 bar. To describe a chemical process under realistic reaction conditions, thermodynamic corrections are necessary, which includes the zero point energy as well as the contributions to enthalpy and entropy at higher temperature and pressure."
[5] "Although the calculated reaction energies and barriers of the elementary steps provide useful clues to interpret the reaction mechanism, a more reliable method is to solve the steady-state at reaction conditions based on the calculated kinetic and thermodynamic information."
[6] "A simpler reaction network was employed by Vang et al.90 to check the selectivity of ethylene dehydrogenation and cracking (CC bond scission) on Ni surfaces (Fig. 7). It includes CH2CH2 dehydrogenations to CH2CH and CHCH, as well as CC bond breaking from CH2CH2 and CHCH."
[7] "The main problems of Pt-based catalyst are its low selectivity to propylene and fast deactivation caused by coke formation."
[8] "A third type of studies covers the case with AB type alloy, in most cases with A:B = 1:1."
[9] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
[10] "In the extreme case, dehydrogenation reactions may be catalyzed by an active site that composes of only one active metal atom on a support, which maximize the efficiency of metal utilization."
[11] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
[12] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
[13] "However, there are still limitations for current theoretical calculations to model more realistic catalytic systems."
[14] "In more complicated cases such as oxides, the reacting molecules can induce change of the structure of a catalyst, creating vacancies or oxidizing surface metal atoms, resulting in a large amount of different types of sites for elementary reactions, and dramatically increase the computational complexity."
[15] "Moreover, many catalytic reactions are catalyzed at the interface of a bi-functional catalyst, which is also not easy to be well described by calculations."
[16] "The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study."
[17] "Similar issues occur in the case of zeolites, where the possibility to distribute Al atoms in the framework increase rapidly with increase of Al/Si ratio."
[18] "The complexity of the systems mentioned above seems to beyond the ability to completely scan the potential energy surfaces to a large extent with DFT calculations, which limits most of the current studies which focus to understand one aspect of the catalyst instead of the complete picture of dehydrogenation."
[19] "In addition to the development of computational approaches, the progress of advanced in situ characterizations has helped in the identification of active sites in complex catalytic systems and offers more guidelines for theoretical studies to build more reliable models."
[20] "On the other hand, controllable synthesis via colloidal chemistry is also necessary which can maximize the content of the theoretically identified highly active and selective sites and structures in a real catalyst."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities (such as acid strength and stability) and morphological characteristics, play a crucial role in dehydrogenation reactions. The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides, and rare-earth metal oxides. The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework. In the extreme case, dehydrogenation reactions may be catalyzed by an active site that composes of only one active metal atom on a support, which maximizes the efficiency of metal utilization. The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes. The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have ensured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces. However, there are still limitations for current theoretical calculations to model more realistic catalytic systems. In more complicated cases such as oxides, the reacting molecules can induce changes in the structure of a catalyst, creating vacancies or oxidizing surface metal atoms, resulting in a large amount of different types of sites for elementary reactions, and dramatically increasing the computational complexity. Moreover, many catalytic reactions are catalyzed at the interface of a bi-functional catalyst, which is also not easy to be well described by calculations. The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study. Similar issues occur in the case of zeolites, where the possibility to distribute Al atoms in the framework increases rapidly with the increase of Al/Si ratio. The complexity of the systems mentioned above seems to be beyond the ability to completely scan the potential energy surfaces to a large extent with DFT calculations, which limits most of the current studies that focus on understanding one aspect of the catalyst instead of the complete picture of dehydrogenation. In addition to the development of computational approaches, the progress of advanced in situ characterizations has helped in the identification of active sites in complex catalytic systems and offers more guidelines for theoretical studies to build more reliable models. On the other hand, controllable synthesis via colloidal chemistry is also necessary, which can maximize the content of the theoretically identified highly active and selective sites and structures in a real catalyst.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.催化剂的物理化学性质，包括化学品质（如酸强度和稳定性）和形态特征，在脱氢反应中起着至关重要的作用。通过添加促进剂，如晚期过渡金属、主族金属（包括锡和镓）、碱金属氧化物和稀土金属氧化物，可以提高对焦炭形成的抵抗力。金属氧化物或氢化物簇的稳定性也受到沸石框架结构的影响。在极端情况下，脱氢反应可能由仅在支撑物上含有一个活性金属原子的活性位催化，这最大限度地提高了金属的利用率。理论研究的最终目标是为特定的化学过程识别出最优的催化剂。计算机硬件的持续改进、新泛函的发展以及计算电子结构软件的日益复杂，确保了计算研究能够访问比简单过渡金属表面更复杂的催化系统。然而，当前理论计算在模拟更现实的催化系统方面仍存在局限性。在更复杂的情况下，如氧化物，反应分子可以诱导催化剂结构的变化，产生空位或氧化表面金属原子，导致大量不同类型的反应位点，从而大大增加了计算复杂性。此外，许多催化反应在双功能催化剂的界面上进行，这也不容易通过计算很好地描述。颗粒与支撑物之间的晶格失配导致颗粒和表面位点之间相对位置的偏移，这导致给定位点的不同环境，导致在单一研究中需要考虑大量可能性。类似的问题发生在沸石的情况下，随着Al/Si比的增加，将Al原子分布在框架中的可能性迅速增加。上述系统的复杂性似乎超出了DFT计算在很大程度上完全扫描势能面的能力，这限制了当前大多数研究，这些研究专注于理解催化剂的一个方面，而不是脱氢的完整图景。除了计算方法的发展外，先进的原位表征技术的进步有助于在复杂的催化系统中识别活性位点，并为理论研究建立更可靠的模型提供了更多的指导。另一方面，通过胶体化学进行可控合成也是必要的，这可以最大限度地提高在实际催化剂中理论识别的高活性和选择性位点和结构的含量。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
