I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


[94] a Initial metal dispersion or percentage exposed. b Second-order sintering rate constant from general power law expression (GPLE) with units of h1. c Sintering activation energy for GPLE: d(D/D0)/dt=ks[D/D0Deq/D0]m, where m=2.
Sintering studies of supported metals are generally of two types: (1) studies of commercially-relevant supported metal catalysts, and (2) studies of model metalsupport systems. The former type provides useful rate data that can be used to predict sintering rates, while the latter type provides insights into the mechanisms of metal particle migration and sintering, although the results cannot be quantitatively extrapolated to predict behavior of commercial catalysts. There is direct evidence from the previous studies of model-supported catalysts [86] ,[89] for the occurrence of crystallite migration (mainly in well-dispersed systems early in the sintering process), atomic migration (mainly at longer sintering times) and spreading of metal crystallites (mainly in oxygen atmosphere). There is also evidence that under reaction conditions, the surface is dynamic, i.e. adsorbates and other adatoms rapidly restructure the surface and slowly bring about faceting; moreover, thermal treatments cause gradual changes in the distribution of coordination sites to minimize surface energy. There is a trend in increasing sophistication of spectroscopic tools used to study sintering and redispersion. In the next decade we might expect additional insights into atomic and molecular processes during reaction at the atomic scale using STM, analytical HRTEM, and other such powerful surface science tools.
2.3.3. Sintering of catalyst carriers
Sintering of carriers has been reviewed by Baker et al.
[85] and Trimm [95] . Single phase oxide carriers sinter by one or more of the following processes: (1) surface diffusion, (2) solid-state diffusion, (3) evaporation/condensation of volatile atoms or molecules, (4) grain boundary diffusion, and (5) phase transformations. In oxidizing atmospheres, γ-alumina and silica are the most thermally stable carriers; in reducing atmospheres, carbons are the most thermally stable carriers. Additives and impurities affect the thermal properties of carriers by occupying defect sites or forming new phases. Alkali metals, for example, accelerate sintering; while calcium, barium, nickel, and lanthanum oxides form thermally stable spinel phases with alumina. Steam accelerates support sintering by forming mobile surface hydroxyl groups that are subsequently volatilized at higher temperatures. Chlorine also promotes sintering and grain growth in magnesia and titania during high temperature calcination. This is illustrated in Fig. 18 [96] . By contrast, sulfuric acid treatment of hydrated alumina (gibbsite) followed by two-step calcination, results in a very stable transitional alumina with needle-like particle morphology [95] . Dispersed metals in supported metal catalysts can also accelerate support sintering, for example, dispersed nickel accelerates the loss of Al2O3 surface area in Ni/Al2O3 catalysts.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 18. BET surface area of titania as a function of thermal treatment and chlorine content of fresh samples (before pretreatment). Samples were treated at the temperature indicated for 2 h [96] .
2.3.4. Effects of sintering on catalyst activity
Baker et al.
[85] have reviewed the effects of sintering on catalytic activity. Specific activity (based on catalytic surface area) can either increase or decrease with increasing metal crystallite size during sintering if the reaction is structure-sensitive, or it can be independent of changes in metal crystallite size if the reaction is structure-insensitive. Thus, for a structure-sensitive reaction, the impact of sintering may be either magnified or moderated; while for a structure insensitive-reaction, sintering has in principle no effect on specific activity (per unit surface area). In the latter case, the decrease in mass-based activity is proportional to the decrease in metal surface area. Ethane hydrogenolysis and ethane steam reforming are examples of structure-sensitive reactions, while CO hydrogenation on supported cobalt, nickel, iron and ruthenium is structure-insensitive.
2.3.5. Mechanisms and models of sintering and redispersion
There are a number of different models of sintering and redispersion [85] which can be classified as empirical, phenomenological, probabilistic, and mechanistic. The GPLE is an empirical model. The most common phenomenological models are ripening models (involving atom migration), coagulation models (involving crystallite migration) and interfacial thermodynamic models (involving spreading and splitting of crystallites). Probabilistic models include statistical and molecular dynamics models. Mechanistic models are detailed chemical models. The existing models for sintering and redispersion do not simulate observed phenomena over sufficiently wide ranges of conditions. More general models are needed to simulate the complex, simultaneous processes that occur during sintering and redispersion. With the advent of relatively inexpensive, powerful, high-speed computers, the application of molecular dynamics and other mechanistic models of sintering and redispersion processes portends great promise for achieving more realistic simulations.
2.4. Gas/vaporsolid and solid-state reactions
In addition to poisoning, there are a number of chemical routes leading to catalyst deactivation: (1) reactions of the vapor phase with the catalyst surface to produce (a) inactive bulk and surface phases (rather than strongly adsorbed species) or (b) volatile compounds which exit the catalyst and reactor in the vapor phase, (2) catalytic solidsupport or catalytic solidpromoter reactions, and (3) solid-state transformations of the catalytic phases during reaction. Each of these routes is discussed in some detail below.
2.4.1. Gas/vaporsolid reactions
2.4.1.1. Reactions of gas/vapor with solid to produce inactive phases
Dispersed metals, metal oxides, metal sulfides, and metal carbides are typical catalytic phases, the surfaces of which are similar in composition to the bulk phases. For a given reaction, one of these catalyst types is generally substantially more active than the others, e.g. only Fe and Ru metals are active for ammonia synthesis, while the oxides, sulfides, and carbides are inactive. If, therefore, one of these metal catalysts is oxidized, sulfided or carbided, it will lose essentially all of its activity. While these chemical modifications are closely related to poisoning, the distinction here is that rather than losing activity due to the presence of an adsorbed species, the loss of activity is due to the formation of a new phase altogether.
Examples of vapor-induced chemical transformations of catalysts to inactive phases are listed in Table 10 [8] ,[97] ,[98] ,[99] ,[100] . These include the formation of RhAl2O4 in the three-way Pt-Rh/Al2O3 catalyst during high temperature operation in an auto exhaust; oxidation of Fe by low levels of O2 during ammonia synthesis or by H2O during regeneration; dealumination (migration of Al from the zeolite framework) of Y-zeolite during high temperature catalytic cracking and regeneration in steam; formation of aluminum sulfate and subsequent plugging of pores of Pt/Al2O3 in the presence of SO3 during CO oxidation in a gas turbine exhaust; oxidation of Fe5C2 to Fe3O4 and of Co metal supported on silica to Co surface silicates during FT synthesis at high conversions and hence high PH2O; and formation of Ni2Al2O4 during reaction and steam regeneration of Ni/Al2O3 in a slightly oxidizing atmosphere above about 500C, especially if more reactive alumina, e.g. γ, δ, or θ forms, are used as supports. The reaction of SO3 with γ-Al2O3 to produce Al2(SO4)3 is also a serious cause of deactivation of alumina-supported catalysts for selective catalytic reduction (SCR) of nitrogen oxides (NOx); hence, TiO2 or SiO2 is used as the carrier for V2O5 NOx removal catalysts.
Table 10. Examples of reactions of gases/vapors with catalytic solids to produce inactive phases Catalytic process Gas/vapor composition Catalytic solid Deactivating chemical reaction References Auto emissions control N2, O2, HCs, CO, NO Pt-Rh/Al2O3 2Rh2O3 + γ-Al2O3  RhAl2O4 + 0.5O2 [97] ,[98] Ammonia synthesis and regeneration H2, N2 Fe/K/Al2O3 Fe  FeO at >50 ppm O2 [8] Traces O2, H2O Fe  FeO at H2O/H2 > 0.16 Catalytic cracking HCs, H2, H2O LaY-zeolite H2O induced Al migration from zeolite framework causing zeolite destruction [8] CO oxidation, gas turbine exhaust N2, O2, 400 ppm CO, 100400 ppm SO2 Pt/Al2O3 2SO3 + γ-Al2O3  Al2(SO4)3 which blocks catalyst pores [8] FischerTropsch CO, H2, H2O, CO2, HCs Fe/K/Cu/SiO2 Fe5C2  Fe3O4 due to oxidation at high XCO by products H2O, CO2 [99] FischerTropsch CO, H2, H2O, HCs Co/SiO2 Co + SiO2  CoO·SiO2 and collapse of SiO2 by product H2O [100] Steam reforming and regeneration in H2O CH4, H2O, CO H2, CO2 Ni/Al2O3 Ni + Al2O3  Ni2Al2O4 [8]
2.4.1.2. Reactions of gas/vapor with solid to produce volatile compounds
Metal loss through direct vaporization is generally an insignificant route to catalyst deactivation. By contrast, metal loss through formation of volatile compounds, e.g. metal carbonyls, oxides, sulfides and halides in CO, O2, H2S, and halogen-containing environments, can be significant over a wide range of condition, including relatively mild conditions. Classes and examples of volatile compounds are listed in Table 11 . Carbonyls are formed at relatively low temperature but high pressures of CO; halides can be formed at relatively low temperatures and low concentration of the halogens. However, the conditions under which volatile oxides are formed vary considerably with the metal; for example, RuO3 can be formed at room temperature, while PtO2 is formed at measurable rates only at temperatures exceeding about 500C.
Table 11. Types and examples of volatile compounds formed in catalytic reactions Gaseous environment Compound type Example of compound CO, NO Carbonyls and nitrosyl carbonyls Ni(CO)4, Fe(CO)5 (0300C) a O2 Oxides RuO3 (25C), PbO (>850C), PtO2 (>700C) H2S Sulfides MoS2 (>550C) Halogens Halides PdBr2, PtCl4, PtF6 a Temperatures of formation are listed in parenthesis.
While the chemical properties of volatile metal carbonyls, oxides and halides are well known, there is surprisingly little information available on their rates of formation during catalytic reactions. There have been no reviews on this subject and relatively few reported studies to define the effects of metal loss on catalytic activity [26] ,[101] ,[102] ,[103] ,[104] ,[105] ,[106] ,[107] ,[108] ,[109] ,[110] ,[111] ,[112] ,[113] ,[114] ; most of the previous work has focused on volatilization of Ru in automotive converters [101] ,[102] ,[103] ,[104] , nickel carbonyl formation in nickel catalysts during methanation of CO [106] ,[107] ,[108] ,[109] ,[110] ,[111] ,[112] or during CO chemisorption at 25C [26] ,[108] , formation of Ru carbonyls during FischerTropsch synthesis [109] ,[110] , and volatilization of Pt during ammonia oxidation on Pt-Rh gauze catalysts [113] ,[114] .
Results of selected studies are summarized in Table 12 . Bartholomew [104] found evidence of significant (50%) Ru loss after testing of a Pd-Ru catalyst in an actual reducing automobile exhaust for 100 h, which he attributed to formation of a volatile ruthenium oxide and which was considered responsible at least in part for a significant loss (20%) of NO reduction activity.
Table 12. Documented examples of reactions of vapor with solid to produce volatile compounds Catalytic process Catalytic solid Vapor formed Comments on deactivation process References Automotive converter Pd-Ru/Al2O3 RuO4 50% loss of Ru during 100 h test in reducing automotive exhaust [104] Methanation of CO Ni/Al2O3 Ni(CO)4 Ni(CO)4 formation at PCO > 20 kPa and T < 425C diffusion and decomposition on the support as large crystallites [106] CO chemisorption Ni catalysts Ni(CO)4 Ni(CO)4 formation at PCO > 0.4 kPa and T > 0C catalyzed by sulfur compounds [107] FischerTropsch synthesis Ru/NaY-zeolite, Ru/Al2O3, Ru/TiO2 Ru(CO)5, Ru3(CO)12 Loss of Ru during FTS (H2/CO = 1, 200250C, 1 atm) on Ru/NaY-zeolite and Ru/Al2O3; up to 40% loss while flowing CO at 175275C over Ru/Al2O3 for 24 h; rate of Ru loss less on titania-supported Ru and for catalysts containing 3 nm relative to 1.3 nm; surface carbon lowers loss [109] ,[110] Ammonia oxidation Pt-Rh gauze PtO2 Loss: 0.050.3 g Pt/t HNO3; recovered with Pd gauze; loss of Pt leads to surface enrichment with inactive Rh [8] ,[116] HCN synthesis Pt-Rh gauze PtO2 Extensive restructuring and loss of mechanical strength [8] ,[120] Shen et al.
[106] found that Ni/Al2O3 methanation catalysts deactivate rapidly during methanation at high partial pressures of CO (>20 kPa) and temperatures below 425C due to Ni(CO)4 formation, diffusion and decomposition on the support as large crystallites; under severe conditions (very high PCO and relatively low reaction temperatures) loss of nickel metal occurs. Thus, loss of nickel and crystallite growth are serious problems at the entrance to methanation reactors where the temperature is low enough and PCO high enough for metal carbonyl formation. Agnelli et al.
[112] investigated kinetics and modeling of sintering due to formation and migration of nickel carbonyl species. They found that the initially sharp crystallite size distribution evolved during several hours of sintering under low temperature (230C) reaction conditions to a bimodal system consisting of small spherical crystallites and large faceted crystals favoring (1 1 1) planes. The sintering process was modeled in terms of an Ostwald-ripening mechanism coupled with mass transport of mobile subcarbonyl intermediates. Long term simulations were found to predict reasonably well the ultimate state of the catalyst. Based on their work, they proposed two solutions for reducing loss of nickel: (1) increasing reaction temperature and decreasing CO partial pressure in order to lower the rate of carbonyl formation, and (2) changing catalyst composition, e.g. alloying nickel with copper or adding alkali to inhibit carbonyl species migration.
Loss of nickel metal during CO chemisorption on nickel catalysts at temperatures above 0C is also a serious problem; moreover, this loss is catalyzed by sulfur poisoning [26] . In view of the toxicity of nickel tetracarbonyl, the rapid loss of nickel metal, and the ill-defined adsorption stoichiometries, researchers are advised to avoid using CO chemisorption for measuring nickel surface areas; instead, hydrogen chemisorption, an accepted ASTM method with a well-defined adsorption stoichiometry is recommended [115] .
Fig. 19 illustrates a mechanism for the formation of Ni(CO)4 on a crystallite of nickel in CO atmosphere.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 19. Formation of volatile tetra-nickel carbonyl at the surface of nickel crystallite in CO atmosphere.
Goodwin and co-workers [109] ,[110] studied the influence of reaction atmosphere, support and metal particle size on the loss of Ru due to carbonyl formation. They found that the loss of Ru during CO hydrogenation (H2/CO=1; 200250C; 1 atm) on Ru/NaY-zeolite and Ru/Al2O3 for extended periods of time was significant (e.g. up to 40% while flowing CO at 175275C over Ru/Al2O3 for 24 h). The loss of Ru was significantly less on titania-supported Ru; moreover, the rate of loss was lower for catalysts containing large metal crystallites (3 nm) relative to those containing small metal crystallites (1.3 nm). Moreover, metal loss was inhibited in part at higher reaction temperatures as a result of carbon deposition. Thus, while it is clear that loss of ruthenium could be a serious problem in FischerTropsch synthesis, there are measures in terms of catalyst design and choice of reaction conditions that can be taken to minimize loss.
One of the most dramatic examples of vapor phase loss of the catalyst occurs during NH3 oxidation on Pt-Rh gauze, an important reaction in the manufacture of nitric oxide [8] ,[113] ,[114] . At the high reaction temperature (900C), formation of a volatile platinum oxide (PtO2) occurs at a very significant rate; in fact, the rate of loss of 0.050.3 g Pt/t of HNO3 is high enough to provide a substantial economic incentive for Pt recovery [8] . The most effective recovery process involves placing a woven Pd-rich alloy gauze immediately below the Pt-Rh gauze to capture the Pt through formation of a PdPt alloy. Pt loss is also the most significant cause of catalyst deactivation as the gauze surface becomes enriched in non-volatile but inactive rhodium oxide [116] , requiring shutdown and catalyst replacement every 312 months [8] .
Decomposition of volatile platinum oxide species formed during high temperature reaction may (similar to the previously discussed formation of large crystallites of Ni from Ni(CO)4) lead to formation of large Pt crystallites and/or substantial restructuring of the metal surface. For example, Wu and Phillips [117] ,[118] ,[119] observed surface etching, enhanced sintering, and dramatic surface restructuring of Pt thin films to faceted particles during ethylene oxidation over a relatively narrow temperature range (500700C). The substantially higher rate of sintering and restructuring in O2/C2H4 relative to that in non-reactive atmospheres was attributed to the interaction of free radicals such as HO2, formed homogeneously in the gas phase, with the metal surface to form metastable mobile intermediates. Etching of Pt-Rh gauze in a H2/O2 mixture under the same conditions as Pt surfaces (600C, N2/O2/H2=90/7.5/2.5) was reported by Hess and Phillips [120] . A significant weight loss was observed in a laminar flow reactor with little change in surface roughness, while in an impinging jet reactor, there was little weight loss, but substantial restructuring of the surface to particle-like structures, 110 μm in diameter; these particles were found to have the same Pt-Rh composition as the original gauze. The nodular structures of about 10 μm diameter formed in these experiments are strikingly similar to those observed on Pt-Rh gauze after use in production of HCN at 1100C in 15% NH3, 13% CH4 and 72% air (see Fig. 20 ). Moreover, due to the high space velocities during HCN production, turbulent, rather than laminar flow would be expected as in the impinging jet reactor. While little Pt is volatilized from the Pt-Rh gauze catalyst during HCN synthesis, the extensive restructuring leads to mechanical weakening of the gauze [8] .
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 20. (a) SEM of Pt-Rh gauze after etching in N2/O2/H2=90/7.5/2.5 at 875 K for 45 h [120] . (b) SEM of Pt-Rh gauze after use in production of HCN; magnification: 1000× (photographs courtesy of Dr. Ted Koch at Du Pont).
Other examples of catalyst deactivation due to volatile compound formation include (1) loss of the phosphorus promoter from the VPO catalyst used in the fluidized-bed production of maleic anhydride with an attendant loss of catalyst selectivity [8] , (2) vapor phase loss of the potassium promoter from steam-reforming catalysts in the high temperature, steam-containing environment [8] , and (3) loss of Mo from a 12-MoVheteropolyacid due to formation of a volatile Mo species during oxydehydrogenation of isobutyric acid to methacrylic acid [111] .While relatively few definitive studies of deactivation by volatile compound formation have been reported, the previous work does provide the basis for enumerating some general principles. A generalized mechanism of deactivation by formation of volatile metal compounds can be postulated (see Fig. 21 ). In addition, the roles of kinetics and thermodynamics can be stated in general terms:
1.
At low temperatures and partial pressures of the volatilization agent (VA), the overall rate of the process is limited by the rate of volatile compound formation.
2.
At intermediate temperatures and partial pressures of the VA, the rate of formation of the volatile compound exceeds the rate of decomposition. Thus, the rate of vaporization is high, the vapor is stable and metal loss is high.
3.
At high temperatures and partial pressures of the VA, the rate of formation equals the rate of decomposition, i.e. equilibrium is achieved. However, the volatile compound may be too unstable to form or may decompose before there is an opportunity to be transported from the system. From the previous work, it is also evident that besides temperature and gas phase composition, catalyst properties (crystallite size and support) can play an important role in determining the rate of metal loss.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 21. Generalized mechanisms and kinetics for deactivation by metal loss [8] .
2.4.2. Solid-state reactions
Catalyst deactivation by solid-state diffusion and reaction appears to be an important mechanism for degradation of complex multi-component catalysts in dehydrogenation, synthesis, partial oxidation and total oxidation reactions [8] ,[121] ,[122] ,[123] ,[124] ,[125] ,[126] ,[127] ,[128] ,[129] ,[130] ,[131] ,[132] . However, it is difficult in most of these reactions to know the extent to which the solid-state processes such as diffusion and solid-state reaction are affected by surface reactions. For example, the rate of diffusion of Al2O3 to the surface to form an aluminate may be enhanced by the presence of gas phase oxygen or water or the nucleation of a different phase may be induced by either reducing or oxidizing conditions. Recognizing this inherent limitation, the focus here is nevertheless on processes in which formation of a new bulk phase (and presumably the attendant surface phase) leads to substantially lower activity. There is probably some overlap with some of the examples in Section 2.4.1.1 involving reactions of gas/vapor with solid to produce inactive phases.
Examples from the literature of solid-state transformations leading to catalyst deactivation are summarized in Table 13 . They include (1) the formation during ammonia synthesis at the Fe/K/Al2O3 catalyst surface of KAlO2, (2) decomposition of the active phase PdO to inactive Pd metal during catalytic combustion of PdO/Al2O3 and PdO/ZrO2 catalysts, (3) transformation of active carbides to inactive carbides in FischerTropsch synthesis on Fe/K/Cu catalysts, (4) formation of inactive V(IV) compounds in SO2 oxidation, and (5) reductive transformation of iron molybdate catalysts during partial oxidation of benzene, methanol, propene, and isobutene.
Table 13. Examples of solid-state transformations leading to catalyst deactivation Catalytic process Catalytic solid Deactivating chemical reaction References Ammonia synthesis Fe/K/Al2O3 Formation of KAlO2 at catalyst surface [131] Catalytic combustion PdO/Al2O3 PdO/ZrO2 PdO  Pd at T>800C [124] Catalytic combustion Co/K on MgO, CeO2, or La2O3 Formation of CoO-MgO solid solution, LaCoO3, or K2O film on CeO2 [132] Dehydrogenation of styrene to ethyl benzene Fe2O3/Cr2O3/K2O K migration to center of pellet caused by thermal gradient [8] FischerTropsch Fe/K, Fe/K/CuO Transformation of active carbides to inactive carbides [129] ,[130] Oxidation of SO2 to SO3 V2O5/K2O/Na2O/kieselguhr Formation of inactive V(IV) compounds at T<420430C [127] Partial oxidation of benzene to maleic anhydride V2O5-MoO3 Decreased selectivity due to loss of MoO3 and formation of inactive vanadium compounds [121] Partial oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde Fe2(MoO4)3 plus MoO3 Structural reorganization to β-FeMoO4; reduction of MoO3 [122] ,[128] Partial oxidation of propene to acrolein Fe2(MoO4)3 Reductive transformation of Mo18O52 to Mo4O11 [125] ,[128] Partial oxidation of isobutene to methacrolein Fe2(MoO4)3 Reduction to FeMoO4 and MoO3x [123] ,[126] There are basic principles underlying most solid-state reactions in working catalysts that have been enumerated by Delmon [128] : (1) the active catalytic phase is generally a high-surface area, defect structure of high surface energy and as such a precursor to more stable, but less active phases and (2) the basic reaction processes may themselves trigger the solid-state conversion of the active phase to an inactive phase; for example, it may involve a redox process, part of which nucleates the inactive phase.A well-documented example of these principles occurs in the partial oxidation of propene to acrolein on a Fe2(MoO4)3 catalyst [125] ,[128] . This oxidation occurs by the Mars van Krevelen mechanism, i.e. a redox mechanism in which lattice oxygen reacts with the adsorbed hydrocarbon to produce the partially oxygenated product; the reduced catalyst is restored to its oxidized state through reaction with gaseous oxygen. In propene oxidation, two atoms of oxygen from the catalyst are used, one for removing two hydrogen atoms from the olefin and the other one in forming the unsaturated aldehyde. The fresh, calcined catalyst MoO3 consists of corner-sharing MoO6 octahedra (with Mo at the center and six oxygen atoms at the corners); but, upon reduction to MoO2 octahedra share edges as shown in Fig. 22 . However, it is reported [125] ,[128] that only slightly reduced (relative to MoO3), open structures such as Mo18O52 and Mo8O23 are the most active, selective phases; more complete reduction of either of these structures leads to formation of Mo4O11 (see Fig. 23 ) having substantially lower selectivity. Accordingly, over-reduction causes catalyst deactivation as structures of lower selectivity are formed. Delmon [126] ,[128] have shown that addition of an oxygen donor such as Sb2O4 facilitates spillover of oxygen and thereby prevents over-reduction and deactivation of the catalyst.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 22. Schematic representation of the cyclic reduction/oxidation of twin pairs of MoO6 octahedra between the corner and the edge-sharing arrangements (boxes represent MoO6 octahedra with sharing of oxygen atoms at corners for MoO3 or edges for MoO2). The figure is not completely accurate, because it cannot take into account the fact that the arrangements are not perpendicular to the main axes of the lattice [128] .Download: Download full-size image Fig. 23. Schematic representation of the structures of MoO3, Mo18O52 and Mo4O11. The shear planes in Mo18O52 and Mo4O11 are represented by the oblique arrows (boxes with an X represent MoO5 octahedra) [128] .
2.5. Mechanical failure of catalysts
2.5.1. Forms and mechanisms of failure
Mechanical failure of catalysts is observed in several different forms, including (1) crushing of granular, pellet or monolithic catalyst forms due to a load, (2) attrition, the size reduction and/or breakup of catalyst granules or pellets to produce fines, especially in fluid or slurry beds, and (3) erosion of catalyst particles or monolith coatings at high fluid velocities. Attrition is evident by a reduction in the particle size or a rounding or smoothing of the catalyst particle easily observed under an optical or electron microscope. Washcoat loss is observed by scanning the wall of the honeycomb channel with either an optical or electron microscope. Large increases in pressure drop in a catalytic process are often indicative of fouling, masking or the fracturing and accumulation of attrited catalyst in the reactor bed.
Commercial catalysts are vulnerable to mechanical failure in large part because of the manner in which they are formed; that is catalyst granules, spheres, extrudates, and pellets ranging in diameter from 50 μm to several centimeters are in general prepared by agglomeration of 0.022 μm aggregates of much smaller primary particles having diameters of 10100 nm by means of precipitation or gel formation followed by spray drying, extrusion, or compaction. These agglomerates have in general considerably lower strengths than the primary particles and aggregates of particles from which they are formed.
Two principal mechanisms are involved in mechanical failure of catalyst agglomerates: (1) fracture of agglomerates into smaller agglomerates of approximately 0.2d00.8d0 and (2) erosion (or abrasion) of aggregates of primary particles having diameters ranging from 0.1 to 10 mm from the surface of the agglomerate [133] . While erosion is caused by mechanical stresses, fracture may be due to mechanical, thermal and/or chemical stresses. Mechanical stresses leading to fracture or erosion in fluidized or slurry beds may result from (1) collisions of particles with each other or with reactor walls or (2) shear forces created by turbulent eddies or collapsing bubbles (cavitation) at high fluid velocities. Thermal stresses occur as catalyst particles are heated and/or cooled rapidly; they are magnified by temperature gradients across particles and by differences in thermal expansion coefficients at the interface of two different materials, e.g. catalyst coating/monolith interfaces; in the latter case the heating or cooling process can lead to fracture and separation of the catalyst coating. Chemical stresses occur as phases of different density are formed within a catalyst particle via chemical reaction; for example, carbiding of primary iron oxide particles increases their specific volume and micro-morphology leading to stresses that break up these particles [134] . A further example occurs in supported metal catalysts when large quantities of filamentous carbon (according to reaction mechanisms discussed in Section 2.2 ) overfill catalysts pores generating enormous stresses which can fracture primary particles and agglomerates.
2.5.2. Role of physical and chemical properties of ceramic agglomerates in determining strength and attrition resistance
2.5.2.1. Factors affecting the magnitude of stress required for agglomerate breakage and the mechanisms by which it occurs
The extent to which a mechanism, i.e. fracture or erosion, participates in agglomerate size reduction depends upon several factors: (1) the magnitude of a stress, (2) the strength and fracture toughness of the agglomerate, (3) agglomerate size and surface area, and (4) crack size and radius. Erosion (abrasion) occurs when the stress (e.g. force per area due to collision or cavitation pressure) exceeds the agglomerate strength, i.e. the strength of bonding between primary particles. Erosion rate is reportedly [133] proportional to the external surface area of the catalyst; thus, erosion rate increases with decreasing agglomerate size.
2.5.2.2. Fracture toughness of ceramic agglomerates
Most heterogeneous catalysts are complex, multiphase materials which consist in large part of porous ceramic materials, i.e. are typically oxides, sulfides, or metals on an oxide carrier or support. When a tensile stress of a magnitude close to the yield point is applied, ceramics almost always undergo brittle fracture before plastic deformation can occur. Brittle fracture occurs through formation and propagation of cracks through the cross-section of a material in a direction perpendicular to the applied stress. Agglomerate fracture due to a tensile stress occurs by propagation of internal and surface flaws; these flaws created by external stresses or inherent defects are stress multipliers, i.e. the stress is multiplied by 2(a/r)0.5, where a is the crack length and r is the radius of curvature of the crack tip; since a/r can vary from 2 to 1000, the effective stress at the tip of a crack can be 460 times the applied stress. Tensile stress multipliers may be microcracks, internal pores, and grain corners.
The ability of a material to resist fracture is termed fracture toughness. The plain strain fracture toughness KIc is defined as (3) where Y is a dimensionless parameter (often close to 1.02.0) the magnitude of which depends upon both specimen and crack geometries, σ the applied stress, and a is the length of a surface crack or half the length of an internal crack. Crack propagation and fracture are likely if the right-hand side of Eq. (3) exceeds the experimental value of plain strain fracture toughness (left-hand side of Eq. (3) ). Plane strain fracture toughness values for ceramic materials are significantly smaller than for metals and typically below 10 MPa(m)0.5; reported values for non-porous, crystalline alumina (99.9%), fused silica, and zirconia (3 mol% Y2O3) are 46, 0.8, and 712 MPa(m)0.5, respectively; flexural strengths (analogous to yield strengths for metals) for the same materials are 280550, 100, and 8001500 MPa [135] . Thus, based on both fracture toughness and flexural strength, non-porous, crystalline zirconia is much stronger towards fracture than alumina which in turn is much stronger than fused silica.
2.5.2.3. Effects of porosity on ceramic agglomerate strength
The introduction of porosity to crystalline or polycrystalline ceramic materials will on the basis of stress amplification significantly decrease elastic modulus and flexural strength for materials in tension. This is illustrated by data in Fig. 24 showing that elastic modulus and flexural strength of a ceramic alumina (probably α form) are reduced 75 and 85%, respectively, as porosity is increased from 0 to 50% [136] . Thus, according to Fig. 24 b the flexural strength of typical porous alumina used as catalyst supports might lie in the range of 3040 MPa. However, yield strengths for γ-Al2O3, shown below in Section 2.5.3 , are factors of 350 lower. Nevertheless, the data in Fig. 24 b suggest that higher strengths may be possible.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 24. The influence of porosity on (a) the modulus of elasticity for aluminum oxide at room temperature and (b) the flexural strength for aluminum oxide at room temperature [136] .
2.5.2.4. Compressive strengths of ceramic materials
Thus far, the discussion has focused mainly on tensile strength, the extent of which is greatly reduced by the presence of cracks or pores. However, for ceramic materials in compression, there is no stress amplification due to flaws or pores; thus ceramic materials (including catalytic materials) in compression are much stronger (approximately a factor of 10) than in tension. In addition, the strength of ceramic materials can be dramatically enhanced by imposing a residual compressive stress at the surface through thermal or chemical tempering. Moreover, introduction of binders such as graphite enables agglomerates of ceramic powders to undergo significant plastic deformation before fracture.
2.5.3. Tensile strengths and attrition resistance of catalyst supports and catalysts
2.5.3.1. Tensile strength data for catalyst support agglomerates
The strengths cited above for non-porous, annealed crystalline or polycrystalline materials do not necessarily apply to porous catalyst agglomerates even under compression; rather, agglomerate strength is dependent upon the strengths of chemical and physical bonds including the cohesive energy between primary particles. Agglomerate strength would depend greatly on the preparation of the compact. Representative data for catalyst agglomerates (see Table 14 ) suggest they are generally substantially weaker than polycrystalline ceramic materials prepared by high temperature sintering, such as alumina cited in Fig. 24 [133] ,[135] ,[137] ,[138] ,[139] ,[140] ,[141] . For example, Pham et al.
[133] found that the breaking strength of a VISTA-B alumina agglomerate during uniaxial compaction is in the range of 510 MPa  substantially lower than the reported values for heat-treated polycrystalline alumina of 280550 MPa [135] . A large part of this difference (about 8595%) can be attributed to porosity; however, the remaining 515% must be due to differences in bonding between primary particles. In other words, the bonds between primary particles in catalyst agglomerates (and some ceramic agglomerates prepared by similar methods) are typically physical in nature (e.g. involve van der Waals forces) while those in sintered polycrystalline ceramic agglomerates are principally chemical due to solid bridging of primary particles. Thus, there appears to be considerable potential for strengthening catalyst agglomerates, since their strengths are typically factors of 350 lower than for conventional, heat-treated ceramics of similar porosity.
Table 14. Mechanical strengths and attrition rates of catalyst supports compared to those of sintered ceramic agglomerates Catalyst support or ceramic Preparation/pretreatment/properties Strength (MPa) Attrition index (wt.%/h) Reference High surface area catalyst supports γ-Al2O3, 1.24.25 mm spheres Solgel granulation/dried 10 h at 40C, calcined 3 h at 450C/389 m2/g, dpore=3.5 nm 11.6  1.9 0.033 [137] γ-Al2O3, 4.25 mm spheres Alcoa LD-350 0.7 0.177 [137] γ-Al2O3, 100 μm VISTA-B-965-500C 6.2  1.3 [133] TiO2 (anatase), 30 μm Thermal hydrolysis/dried 110C, calcined 2 h 500C/92 m2/g, <10 nm primary crystallites 28 a [138] TiO2 (anatase), 90 μm Base precipitation/dried 110C, calcined 2 h 500C/81 m2/g, 1014 nm primary crystallites 15 a [138] TiO2 (75% anatase, 25% rutile) Degussa P25, fumed/4 mm extrudates/48 m2/g, Vpore=0.34 cm3/g, dpore=21 nm 0.9 [139] TiO2 (anatase) Rhone-Poulenc DT51, precipitate/4 mm extrudates/92 m2/g, Vpore=0.40 cm3/g, dpore=8.65 nm 0.9 [139]
Low surface area ceramics
Al2O3 Spray dried with organic binder; plastic deformation observed 2.3 [140] Al2O3 Heat treated (sintered), 99.9% 282551 [135] TiO2 (rutile) Partially sintered 194 [140] ZrO2 (yttria additive) Commercial samples from three companies, spray-dried 0.0350.43 [141] ZrO2 (3% Y2O3) Heat treated (sintered) 8001500 [135] a Rough estimates from break points on relative density vs. log(applied pressure) curves; data are consistent with mass distribution vs. pressure curves from ultrasonic tests.
2.5.3.2. Effects of preparation and pretreatment on catalyst agglomerate strength
From the data in Table 14 it is further evident that even subtle differences in preparation and pretreatment also affect agglomerate strength. For example, spheres of γ-Al2O3 prepared by solgel granulation are substantially (17 times) stronger than commercial γ-Al2O3 spheres [136] . Moreover, 30 and 90 μm diameter particles of TiO2 prepared by thermal hydrolysis or basic precipitation are 30 and 15 times stronger than commercially available 4 mm extrudates [138] ,[139] .
2.5.3.3. Attrition of catalyst agglomerates: mechanisms, studies and test methods
Catalyst attrition is a difficult problem in the operation of moving-bed, slurry-bed, or fluidized-bed reactors. Generally, stronger materials have greater attrition resistance; this conclusion is supported by representative data in Table 14 for γ-Al2O3 showing that the strength of the alumina prepared by solgel granulation is 17 times higher, while its attrition rate is 5 times lower. The mechanism by which attrition occurs (erosion or fracture) can vary with catalyst or support preparation, crush strength and with reactor environment; it can also vary with the mechanical test method. There is some evidence in the attrition literature supporting the hypothesis that in the presence of a large stress, weaker oxide materials are prone to failure by fracture, while stronger materials tend to erode. For example, in the fluid catalytic cracking process, as new silica-alumina/zeolite catalyst in the form of 50150 μm spherical agglomerates is added to replace catalyst lost by attrition, the weaker agglomerates break up fairly rapidly by fracture into smaller subagglomerates, following which the stronger agglomerates are slowly abraded to produce fine particles of 110 μm [142] . However, there is also contrary evidence from Thoma et al.
[138] showing that fracture may be the preferred mechanism for strong TiO2 agglomerates, while abrasion is favored for weaker agglomerates. That is, when subjected to ultrasonic stress, 30 μm diameter agglomerates of amorphous anatase (TiO2) prepared by thermal hydrolysis were observed to undergo fracture to 515 μm fragments, while 90 μm agglomerates of polycrystalline anatase prepared by basic precipitation were found to break down by erosion to 0.15 μm fragments [138] ; in this case the amorphous anatase was apparently stronger by a factor of 2 (see Table 14 ). Supporting a third trend, data from Pham et al.
[133] show that attrition mechanism and rate are independent of agglomerate strength but depend instead on the type of material. That is, 100 μm diameter agglomerates of precipitated Fe/Cu/K FischerTropsch catalyst (prepared by United Catalyst (UCI)) and having nearly the same strength shown in Table 14 for VISTA-B Al2O3 (6.3 versus 6.2 MPa), were found to undergo substantial fracture to 530 μm fragments (an increase from 45 to 85%, see Fig. 25 ) as well as substantial erosion to 1 μm or less fragments (increase from 2 to 50%). Under the same treatment conditions, 90 μm diameter agglomerates of VISTA-B Al2O3 underwent by comparison much less attrition, mainly by erosion (20% increase in 0.15 μm fragments). The very low attrition resistance of the Fe/Cu/K UCI catalyst is further emphasized by the unhappy outcome of a test by the US Department of Energy (DOE) of this catalyst in a pilot-scale slurry phase bubble-column reactor in LaPorte, TX; following 1 day of operation, the filter system was plugged with catalyst fines, preventing catalyst-wax separation and forcing shutdown of the plant [143] .
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 25. Sedigraph particle size distribution for UCI FT catalyst UCI-LAPI-COMP-DRUMC, used previously in DOE pilot plant tests. There is considerable particle breakdown and generation of fine particles after 15 min of ultrasonic irradiation [133] .
Thus, based on these three representative examples, it follows that which of the two attrition mechanisms predominates depends much more on material composition and type than on agglomerate strength. However, irrespective of mechanism the rate of attrition is usually greater for the weaker material.
Fig. 26 illustrates the large effect that catalyst preparation method can have on the attrition resistance of an Fe/Cu FischerTropsch catalyst [144] . This catalyst, prepared by precipitation, undergoes severe attrition during a 25 min treatment with ultrasonic radiation; indeed the mass fraction finer than 0.15 μm increases from 0 to 65%. However, after a spray drying treatment of the same catalyst, less than a 10% increase in the same fractions is evident.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 26. Sedigraph particle size distributions of a precipitated Fe-Cu catalyst, as-prepared and after spray-drying. The as-prepared catalyst (a) is weak and breaks down easily after 25 min of ultrasonic irradiation, while spray-drying (b) improves its attrition resistance [144] .
In their review of attrition and attrition test methods, Bemrose and Bridgwater [145] discuss how attrition varies with reactor type, e.g. involves mainly particlewall impacts in moving pellet bed reactors and particleparticle impacts in fluidized-bed reactor of high fluid velocity. In fact, jet attrition of catalyst particles in a gas fluidized bed involving principally abrasion due to collision of high-velocity particles has been modeled in some detail [142] ,[146] . Thus, given such important differences in attrition mechanism, realistic attrition test methods should attempt to model reactor operation as closely as possible. In addition, the ideal test would require only a small catalyst sample, a simple, inexpensive apparatus, and a few minutes to complete the test. Relatively quick, inexpensive single particle crushing tests have been devised [145] , however, properties of a single particle are rarely representative of those for the bed; moreover, it is difficult to relate the results of this crushing test to the actual abrasion process. Realistic tests have been devised for two reactor types involving a moving catalyst, i.e. an air-jet test for fluidized-bed catalysts [147] ,[148] , and a rotating drum apparatus for moving-bed catalysts [149] ; however, the air-jet test requires a large quantity (e.g. 50 g) of catalyst, an expensive apparatus, and about 20 h to run. In the past decade a new jet-cup test has been developed for testing of fluidized-bed catalysts [147] ,[148] which requires only a 5 g sample and about 1 h to complete; comparisons of results for the jet-cup and air-jet tests indicate that the two tests give comparable results [147] ,[148] . Nevertheless, the mechanisms for the two tests are different, i.e. the air-jet (fluid-bed) test is abrasion (erosion)-dominant, while the jet-cup test includes both abrasion and fracture mechanisms [148] . A 30 min, 10 g ultrasonic attrition test based on cavitation has also been developed in the past decade [133] ,[138] ,[150] ; while it likewise involves both abrasion and fracture mechanisms, the results appear to correlate with other methods. For example, particle size distributions for the same Co/silica catalyst after ultrasonic, jet-cup and lab-scale, slurry-bed column reactor (SBCR) tests are very similar (see Fig. 27 ) indicating that both fracture and abrasion mechanisms operate in the small-scale SBCR. Moreover, the good agreement among the three methods suggests that both the jet-cup and ultrasonic tests may provide data representative of the attrition process in lab-scale SBCR reactors. It is evident that these two small-scale methods are especially useful for screening of a series of catalysts to determine relative strength.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 27. Particle size distributions of Co/SiO2 catalyst [148] .
Nevertheless, the more realistic large-scale tests are probably needed for accurately determining design attrition rates of a commercial catalyst to be used in a full-scale process. The observation that attrition of an FCC catalyst initially involves fracture of weak agglomerates followed by abrasion of strong agglomerates emphasizes the need to collect and analyze the particle size distribution of attrited fines as a function of time in order to define which mechanism (or mechanisms) operates at startup as well as in the steady-state process. Because the mechanism may be time dependent, rapid, small-scale tests may produce misleading results.
While realistic lab-scale tests have been developed for simulating attrition in large moving-bed and fluidized-bed reactors, no such laboratory test has been developed and demonstrated yet for simulation of large-scale SBCR reactors, although recent research has focused on the development of such tests. For example, in lab-scale, SBCR tests of supported cobalt catalysts over several days [150] , it was observed that the attrition resistance decreases in the order Co/Al2O3, Co/SiO2, Co/TiO2 (especially the anatase form underwent attrition at a high rate); attrition resistance was observed to increase with increasing cobalt loading from 10 to 40 wt.%.
2.5.4. Implications of mechanistic knowledge of attrition for catalyst design
The understanding of mechanisms important in attrition of catalyst supports and catalysts, the relationship between strength and attrition rate for a given material, and test data can be used to great advantage in the design of attrition resistant catalysts. Several alternatives follow from the previous discussion for increasing attrition resistance: (1) increasing aggregate/agglomerate strength by means of advanced preparation methods, e.g. solgel granulation, spray drying, and carefully controlled precipitation methods (see Table 14 and Fig. 26 for examples), (2) adding binders to improve strength and toughness, e.g. the addition of a polyvinylpyrrolidone binder to agglomerates of quartz sand increases agglomerate strength from 0.1 to 3 MPa [151] , (3) coating aggregates with a porous but very strong material such as ZrO2, e.g. embedding a fluidized-bed catalyst for partial oxidation of n-butane to maleic anhydride in a strong, amorphous matrix of zirconium hydrogen phosphate significantly improves its attrition resistance [152] , and (4) chemical or thermal tempering of agglomerates to introduce compressive stresses which increase strength and attrition resistance, e.g. heating and cooling particles rapidly by passing them through a low-residence-time, high-temperature furnace to harden the agglomerate exterior, while preventing significant sintering of or phase changes in the porous interior.
3. Summary, perspective, and needs for further investigation
3.1. Summary
This review summarizes the present state of knowledge regarding catalyst deactivation mechanisms. Important facts and conclusions can be summarized as follows:
1.
The mechanisms of catalyst deactivation are many; nevertheless, they can be grouped into six intrinsic mechanisms of catalyst decay: (i) poisoning, (ii) fouling, (iii) thermal degradation, (iv) vapor compound formation accompanied by transport, (v) vaporsolid and/or solidsolid reactions, and (vi) attrition/crushing. As (i), (iv), and (v) are chemical in nature while (ii) and (v) are mechanical, the causes of deactivation are basically three-fold: chemical, mechanical and thermal.
2.
Poisoning is the strong chemisorption of reactants, products or impurities on sites otherwise available for catalysis. Depending upon the poison concentration, poisoning may be rapid or slow; depending on the strength of poison adsorption, poisoning may be reversible or irreversible. Mechanistically, poisoning is a complex process involving some or all of the following: (a) physical blockage of one or more catalytic sites by the strongly adsorbed poison, (b) electronic modification of nearest neighbor atoms and sometimes even next-nearest neighbor atoms, (c) restructuring of the adsorbent surface, and (d) hindering surface diffusion of adsorbed reactants, thereby preventing reaction. Since a number of common poisons such as coke, sulfur and arsenic compounds are strongly and irreversibly adsorbed, poisoning is best prevented through purification of the reactant stream by means of scrubbers or guard beds, rather than attempting to remove the poison from the catalyst after the fact.
3.
Fouling is the physical (mechanical) deposition of species from the fluid phase onto the catalyst surface, which results in activity loss due to blockage of sites and/or pores. In its advanced stages it may result in disintegration of catalyst particles and plugging of the reactor voids. Important examples include (a) copious deposits of filamentous carbon due to CO disproportionation during operation at relatively high temperatures and/or at low H2/CO or steam/C ratios in FischerTropsch synthesis, methanation, and steam reforming of methane and (b) multilayer accumulation of coke in catalytic cracking on zeolites or hydrotreating on CoMo/Al2O3 catalysts. Carbon deposition and coke formation occur at relatively low rates under favorable reaction conditions; however, under unfavorable conditions, high rates can lead to catastrophic failure of the catalyst and plugging of reactor voids leading to shutdown within hours. Mechanistically, carbon deposition on supported metals and coke formation on zeolites are very different. The former involves dissociation of CO or hydrocarbons on the metal surface to form α-carbon which can then polymerize to undesirable carbon forms such as graphite or carbon filaments. The latter (coke formation on zeolites) occurs by a series of free radical carbocation reactions on acid sites including dehydrogenation, oligomerization, cyclization, aromatization, and formation of polynuclear aromatics. Keys to preventing carbon deposition and coke formation include: (a) operating under conditions that minimize formation, e.g. at sufficiently high H2/CO ratios in FT synthesis so that precursors to inactive carbon formation are kept at a low coverage by gasification with hydrogen; (b) optimizing catalyst design, e.g. in the case of zeolites optimizing acidity to minimize coke formation; and (c) purifying the feed to remove precursors that accelerate carbon or coke formation, e.g. removal of polynuclear aromatics from the feed of a hydrocracking or hydrotreating process which otherwise react readily on acid sites to form coke. Where coke formation is not easily prevented (e.g. catalytic cracking and reforming) deactivation is relatively easily reversed by regeneration through carefully controlled low-temperature combustion of deposited coke in air.
4.
Thermally-induced deactivation of catalysts result from (i) loss of catalytic surface area due to crystallite growth of the catalytic phase, (ii) loss of support area due to support collapse and of catalytic surface area due to pore collapse on crystallites of the active phase, and/or (iii) chemical transformations of catalytic phases to non-catalytic phases. The first two processes are typically referred to as sintering. Sintering processes generally take place at high reaction temperatures (e.g. >500C) and are generally accelerated by the presence of water vapor. Three principal mechanisms of metal crystallite growth have been advanced: (1) crystallite migration, (2) atomic migration, and (3) (at very high temperatures) vapor transport. Redispersion, the reverse of crystallite growth in the presence of O2 and/or Cl2, may involve (a) formation of volatile metal oxide or metal chloride complexes which attach to the support and are subsequently decomposed to small crystallites upon reduction and/or (b) formation of oxide particles or films that break into small crystallites during subsequent reduction. Growth of metal crystallites on a support could in principle involve a combination of all three sintering mechanisms operating simultaneously, although relative rates will depend upon reaction conditions. Temperature, atmosphere, metal type, metal dispersion, promoters/impurities and support surface area, texture and porosity, are the principal parameters affecting rates of sintering and redispersion. Sintering rates increase exponentially with temperature; activation energies are on the order of 15100 kJ/mol. Metals sinter relatively rapidly in oxygen or water vapor and relatively slowly in hydrogen. Promoters such as MgO or BaO lower sintering rates by decreasing metal atom mobility, while support surface defects or pores impeded surface migration of metal particles. In general, sintering processes are slow at moderate reaction temperatures and either irreversible or difficult to reverse. Thus, sintering is more easily prevented than cured; the key is to maximize catalytic activity enough to enable operation at temperatures low enough that sintering rates are negligible.
5.
In addition to poisoning, there are other chemical routes leading to catalyst deactivation: (1) reactions of the vapor phase with the catalyst surface to produce (a) inactive bulk and surface phases (rather than strongly adsorbed species) or (b) volatile compounds which exit the catalyst and reactor in the vapor phase, (2) catalytic solidsupport or catalytic solidpromoter reactions, and (3) solid-state transformations of the catalytic phases during reaction. Examples of these four phenomena include: (1) oxidation of Co metal supported on silica by product water to Co surface silicates during FT synthesis at high conversion, (2) loss of Pt by formation of volatile PtO2 during ammonia oxidation on Pt-Rh gauze catalysts, (3) formation during ammonia synthesis at the Fe/K/Al2O3 catalyst surface of KAlO2, and (4) reductive transformation of Mo18O52 to Mo4O11 during partial oxidation of propene to acrolein. These forms of chemical deactivation can be prevented or moderated in large part through careful control of reaction conditions and appropriate design of the catalyst.
6.
Mechanical failure of catalysts is observed in several different forms, including (1) crushing of granular, pellet or monolithic catalyst forms due to a load, (2) attrition, the size reduction and/or breakup of catalyst granules or pellets to produce fines, especially in fluid or slurry beds, and (3) erosion of catalyst particles or monolith coatings at high fluid velocities. Two principal mechanisms are involved in attrition of catalyst agglomerates: (1) fracture of agglomerates into smaller agglomerates of approximately 0.2d00.8d0 and (2) erosion (or abrasion) of aggregates of primary particles having diameters ranging from 0.1 to 10 μm from the surface of the agglomerate. While erosion is caused by mechanical stresses, fracture may be due to mechanical, thermal and/or chemical stresses. Mechanical stresses leading to fracture or erosion in fluidized or slurry beds may result from (1) collisions of particles with each other or with reactor walls or (2) shear forces created by turbulent eddies or collapsing bubbles (cavitation) at high fluid velocities. The extent to which a mechanism, i.e. fracture or erosion, participates in agglomerate size reduction depends upon several factors: (1) the magnitude of a stress, (2) the strength and fracture toughness of the agglomerate, (3) agglomerate size and surface area, and (4) crack or pore size and radius. There appears to be considerable potential for strengthening catalyst agglomerates, since their strengths are typically factors of 350 lower than for conventional, heat-treated ceramics of similar porosity. Subtle changes in preparation, pretreatment, and fabrication can greatly improve catalyst agglomerate strength. Some promising alternatives for increasing catalyst attrition resistance and strength include (1) increasing aggregate/agglomerate strength by means of advanced preparation methods, e.g. solgel granulation, spray drying, and carefully controlled precipitation methods, (2) adding binders to improve strength and toughness, (3) coating aggregates with a porous but very strong material such as ZrO2, and (4) chemical or thermal tempering of agglomerates to introduce compressive stresses which increase strength and attrition resistance.
3.2. Perspective and needs for further investigation
The development during the past two decades of more sophisticated surface spectroscopies and powerful computer technologies provides opportunities for obtaining substantially better understanding of deactivation mechanisms and building this understanding into comprehensive mathematical models that will enable more effective design and optimization of processes involving deactivating catalysts. Presently, there are relatively few such comprehensive models that can be used by design engineers and plant operators. The status of knowledge and needs for further work are summarized below for each type of deactivation mechanism.
3.2.1. Poisoning
Poisoning of catalysts is a relatively well-studied, reasonably well-understood phenomenon. Poisoning by reversible and irreversible poisons can usually be modeled with moderate success at the process level. Nevertheless, the ability to quantitatively model at the molecular level (a) poison-surface atom binding energies and effects of poison adsorption on the binding energies of adjacent adsorbed reactants or (b) restructuring of surfaces due to adsorbed poisons is lacking. While structures of adsorbed poisons such as sulfur on metals in a vacuum have been well-characterized by surface science techniques, there are few such data (if any) for adsorbed poisons under reaction conditions. There is a paucity of data on the intrinsic effects of poisons on activities of well-defined catalyst systems measured during reaction in the absence of gas phase or solid phase concentration gradients.
3.2.2. Carbon and coke formation
The mechanisms by which various carbon species are formed on supported metals and by which various types of coke are formed on acidic oxides and sulfides are only moderately well understood. The structures of a number of carbon species (e.g. β-carbon formed during CO hydrogenation on metals) and coke deposits (e.g. types IIII) formed in hydrodesulfurization need to be better defined. Of even greater importance is research establishing specific links between the quantity of certain carbon or coke structures on the surface or in multilayers and the extent of deactivation. In addition, rate data are needed for the elementary steps involved in the formation of various carbons (αγ) and coke molecules. Theoretical and empirical models are also needed for diffusion of small to large molecules in zeolite pores which include the effects of acidity and allow calculations of diffusivity. Once established these links and kinetic parameters will provide a fundamental basis for development of more effective models of catalyst deactivation by carbons and cokes. There is a need for better understanding of how noble metal promoters influence carbon and coke formation rates in CO hydrogenation and steam reforming. Likewise, the roles of acid strength and acid site density in coke formation on acidic oxides need to be better understood for a number of reactions.
3.2.3. Sintering
Development of comprehensive sintering models has suffered due to (a) the complexity of the elementary processes, (b) a lack of kinetic data for these processes, and (c) a lack of high quality dispersion and particle-size distribution versus time data needed for validating such models. Comprehensive, statistically-significant measurements of sintering rates for supported metal catalysts under reaction conditions over several hundreds of hours and where possible in large scale processes are needed for process design/optimization and model development/validation. While sophisticated spectroscopic tools have been used effectively during the past two decades to advance our fundamental understanding of sintering and redispersion, additional insights into atomic and molecular processes occurring during sintering and redispersion are needed to develop more sophisticated, realistic models.
3.2.4. Vaporsolid and solid-state reactions
There are relatively few catalytic reactions for which definitive studies of these deactivation processes have been carried out. There have been relatively few fundamental studies of these reactions for well-defined systems at the surface molecular level. There are a number of catalytic processes that might benefit from such studies, e.g. partial oxidations on complex oxides and FisherTropsch synthesis on cobalt and iron catalysts. For example, hydrothermal degradation of cobalt/alumina and cobalt/silica catalysts to form aluminates and silicates is a serious problem in FT synthesis at the high-pressure, high-conversion conditions typical of commercial operation. Some recent studies have addressed this problem, but there is a clear need for further definitive work to understand and treat this problem.
3.2.5. Mechanical failure
Mechanical failure due to attrition or collapse of agglomerates is a serious or limiting problem in many commercial catalytic processes. Yet our present understanding of these problems barely exceeds that taught in sophomore materials science. Effective test methods have been developed only in the last decade. The few available data suggest that significant improvements in the strengths and attrition resistances of catalyst agglomerates are possible through the use of more sophisticated preparation, pretreatment, and forming methods. There are critical needs for developing stronger, more attrition resistant catalytic materials, e.g. the need to develop attrition resistant FT catalysts for slurry bubble column operation.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Explain the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), detailing its three steps (dissociative adsorption, β-H extraction, and desorption), and critically discuss the ongoing debate regarding whether the dissociative adsorption process or the β-H extraction is the rate-controlling step in this reaction. How does this uncertainty impact our understanding of the PDH process?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 