I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Mechanisms of catalyst deactivation Abstract The literature treating mechanisms of catalyst deactivation is reviewed. Intrinsic mechanisms of catalyst deactivation are many; nevertheless, they can be classified into six distinct types: (i) poisoning, (ii) fouling, (iii) thermal degradation, (iv) vapor compound formation accompanied by transport, (v) vapor-solid and/or solid-solid reactions, and (vi) attrition/crushing. As (i), (iv), and (v) are chemical in nature and (ii) and (v) are mechanical, the causes of deactivation are basically three-fold: chemical, mechanical and thermal. Each of these six mechanisms is defined and its features are illustrated by data and examples from the literature. The status of knowledge and needs for further work are also summarized for each type of deactivation mechanism. The development during the past two decades of more sophisticated surface spectroscopies and powerful computer technologies provides opportunities for obtaining substantially better understanding of deactivation mechanisms and building this understanding into comprehensive mathematical models that will enable more effective design and optimization of processes involving deactivating catalysts.
1. Introduction
Catalyst deactivation, the loss over time of catalytic activity and/or selectivity, is a problem of great and continuing concern in the practice of industrial catalytic processes. Costs to industry for catalyst replacement and process shutdown total billions of dollars per year. Time scales for catalyst deactivation vary considerably; for example, in the case of cracking catalysts, catalyst mortality may be in the order of seconds, while in ammonia synthesis the iron catalyst may last for 510 years. But it is inevitable that all catalysts will decay.
Typically, the loss of activity in a well-controlled process occurs slowly. However, process upsets or poorly designed hardware can bring about catastrophic failure. For example, in steam reforming of methane or naphtha great care must be taken to avoid reactor operation at excessively high temperatures or at steam to hydrocarbon ratios below a critical value. Indeed, these conditions can cause formation of large quantities of carbon filaments which plug catalyst pores and voids, pulverize catalyst pellets, and bring about process shut down all within a few hours.
While catalyst deactivation is inevitable for most processes, some of its immediate, drastic consequences may be avoided, postponed, or even reversed. Thus, deactivation issues (i.e. extent, rate and reactivation) greatly impact research, development, design, and operation of commercial processes. Accordingly, there is considerable motivation to understand and treat catalyst decay. Indeed, over the past three decades, the science of catalyst deactivation has been steadily developing, while literature addressing this topic has expanded considerably to include books [1] ,[2] ,[3] ,[4] ; comprehensive reviews [5] ,[6] ,[7] ,[8] ; and proceedings of international symposia [9] ,[10] ,[11] ,[12] ,[13] ,[14] . A significant fraction of this literature addresses mechanisms of deactivation. This area of research provides a critical understanding which is the foundation for modeling deactivation processes, designing stable catalysts, and optimizing processes to prevent or slow catalyst deactivation.
This review summarizes the present state of knowledge regarding mechanisms of catalyst decay. Areas of mechanistic research in which further investigations are needed are also addressed.
2. Mechanisms of deactivation
Prevention of catalyst degradation poses substantial challenges in the design and operation of a large-scale, catalytic process. There are many paths for catalyst decay. For example, a catalyst may be poisoned by any one of a dozen contaminants present in the feed; its surface, pores and voids may be fouled by carbon or coke produced by cracking/condensation reactions of hydrocarbon reactants, intermediates and/or products. In the treatment of a power plant flue gas, the catalyst can be dusted or eroded by and/or plugged with fly ash. Catalytic converters used to reduce emissions from gasoline or diesel engines may be poisoned or fouled by fuel or lubricant additives and/or engine corrosion products. If the catalytic reaction is conducted at high temperatures, thermal degradation may occur in the form of active phase crystallite growth, collapse of the carrier (support) pore structure and/or solid-state reactions of the active phase with the carrier or promoters. In addition, the presence of oxygen or chlorine in the feed gas can lead to formation of volatile oxides or chlorides of the active phase followed by gas phase transport from the reactor. Similarly, changes in the oxidation state of the active catalytic phase can be induced by the presence of reactive gases in the feed.
Thus, the mechanisms of catalyst deactivation are many; nevertheless, they can be grouped into six intrinsic mechanisms of catalyst decay: (i) poisoning, (ii) fouling, (iii) thermal degradation, (iv) vapor compound formation accompanied by transport, (v) vaporsolid and/or solidsolid reactions, and (vi) attrition/crushing. As (i), (iv), and (v) are chemical in nature while (ii) and (v) are mechanical, the causes of deactivation are basically three-fold: chemical, mechanical and thermal. Each of the six basic mechanisms is defined briefly in Table 1 and treated in some detail in the subsections which follow with an emphasis on the first three. Mechanisms (iv) and (v) are treated together, since (iv) is a subset of (v).
Table 1. Mechanisms of catalyst deactivation Mechanism Type Brief definition/description Poisoning Chemical Strong chemisorption of species on catalytic sites, thereby blocking sites for catalytic reaction Fouling Mechanical Physical deposition of species from fluid phase onto the catalytic surface and in catalyst pores Thermal degradation Thermal Thermally induced loss of catalytic surface area, support area, and active phasesupport reactions Vapor formation Chemical Reaction of gas with catalyst phase to produce volatile compound Vaporsolid and solidsolid reactions Chemical Reaction of fluid, support, or promoter with catalytic phase to produce inactive phase Attrition/crushing Mechanical Loss of catalytic material due to abrasion Loss of internal surface area due to mechanical-induced crushing of the catalyst particle
2.1. Poisoning
Poisoning [3] ,[15] ,[16] ,[17] ,[18] ,[19] ,[20] ,[21] is the strong chemisorption of reactants, products or impurities on sites otherwise available for catalysis. Thus, poisoning has operational meaning; that is, whether a species acts as a poison depends upon its adsorption strength relative to the other species competing for catalytic sites. For example, oxygen can be a reactant in partial oxidation of ethylene to ethylene oxide on a silver catalyst and a poison in hydrogenation of ethylene on nickel. In addition to physically blocking of adsorption sites, adsorbed poisons may induce changes in the electronic or geometric structure of the surface [16] ,[20] .
Mechanisms by which a poison may affect catalytic activity are multifold as illustrated by a conceptual two-dimensional model of sulfur poisoning of ethylene hydrogenation on a metal surface shown in Fig. 1 . To begin with, a strongly adsorbed atom of sulfur physically blocks at least one three- or four-fold adsorption/reaction site (projecting into three dimensions) and three or four topside sites on the metal surface. Second, by virtue of its strong chemical bond, it electronically modifies its nearest neighbor metal atoms and possibly its next nearest neighbor atoms, thereby modifying their abilities to adsorb and/or dissociate reactant molecules (in this case H2 and ethylene molecules), although these effects do not extend beyond about 5 a.u.
[20] . A third effect may be the restructuring of the surface by the strongly adsorbed poison, possibly causing dramatic changes in catalytic properties, especially for reactions sensitive to surface structure. In addition, the adsorbed poison blocks access of adsorbed reactants to each other (a fourth effect) and finally prevents or slows the surface diffusion of adsorbed reactants (a fifth effect).
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. Conceptual model of poisoning by sulfur atoms of a metal surface during ethylene hydrogenation.
Catalyst poisons can be classified according to their chemical makeup, selectivity for active sites and the types of reactions poisoned.
Table 2 lists four groups of catalyst poisons classified according to chemical origin and their type of interaction with metals. It should be emphasized that interactions of group VAVIIIA elements with catalytic metal phases depend on the oxidation state of the former, i.e. how many electron pairs are available for bonding and the degree of shielding of the sulfur ion by ligands [15] . Thus, the order of decreasing toxicity for poisoning of a given metal by different sulfur species is H2S, SO2, SO42, i.e. in the order of increased shielding by oxygen. Toxicity increases with increasing atomic or molecular size and electronegativity, but decreases if the poison can be gasified by O2, H2O or H2 present in the reactant stream [20] ; for example, adsorbed carbon can be gasified by O2 to CO or CO2 or by H2 to CH4.
Table 2. Common poisons classified according to chemical structure Chemical type Examples Type of interaction with metals Groups VA and VIA N, P, As, Sb, O, S, Se, Te Through s- and p-orbitals; shielded structures are less toxic Group VIIA F, Cl, Br, I Through s- and p-orbitals; formation of volatile halides Toxic heavy metals and ions As, Pb, Hg, Bi, Sn, Zn, Cd, Cu, Fe Occupy d-orbitals; may form alloys Molecules which adsorb with multiple bonds CO, NO, HCN, benzene, acetylene, other unsaturated hydrocarbons Chemisorption through multiple bonds and back bonding Table 3 lists a number of common poisons for selected catalysts in important representative reactions. It is apparent that organic bases (e.g. amines) and ammonia are common poisons for acidic solids such as silica-alumina and zeolites in cracking and hydrocracking reactions while sulfur- and arsenic-containing compounds are typical poisons for metals in hydrogenation, dehydrogenation and steam reforming reactions. Metal compounds (e.g. Ni, Pb, V and Zn) are poisons in automotive emissions control, catalytic cracking and hydrotreating. Acetylene is a poison for ethylene oxidation, while asphaltenes are poisons in hydrotreating of petroleum residual.
Table 3. Poisons for selected catalysts in important representative reactions Catalyst Reaction Poisons Silica-alumina, zeolites Cracking Organic bases, hydrocarbons heavy metals Nickel, platinum, palladium Hydrogenation dehydrogenation Compounds of S, P, As, Zn, Hg, halides, Pb, NH3, C2H2 Nickel Steam reforming of methane, naphtha H2S, As Iron, ruthenium Ammonia synthesis O2, H2O, CO, S, C2H2, H2O Cobalt, and iron FischerTropsch synthesis H2S, COS, As, NH3, metal carbonyls Noble metals on zeolites Hydrocracking NH3, S, Se, Te, P Silver Ethylene oxidation to ethylene oxide C2H2 Vanadium oxide Oxidation selective catalytic reduction As, Fe, K, Na from fly ash Platinum, palladium Oxidation of CO and hydrocarbons Pb, P, Zn, SO2, Fe Cobalt and molybdenum sulfides Hydrotreating of residue Asphaltenes, N compounds, Ni, V Poisoning selectivity is illustrated in Fig. 2 , a plot of activity (the reaction rate normalized to initial rate) versus normalized poison concentration. Selective poisoning involves preferential adsorption of the poison on the most active sites at low concentrations. If sites of lesser activity are blocked initially, the poisoning is anti-selective. If the activity loss is proportional to the concentration of adsorbed poison, the poisoning is non-selective. An example of selective poisoning is the deactivation of platinum by CO for the para-H2 conversion ( Fig. 3 a;[22] ) while Pb poisoning of CO oxidation on platinum is apparently anti-selective ( Fig. 3 b;[23] ), and arsenic poisoning of cyclopropane hydrogenation on Pt is non-selective ( Fig. 3 c;[24] ). For non-selective poisoning the linear decrease in activity with poison concentration or susceptibility (σ) is defined by the slope of the activity versus poison concentration curve. Several other important terms associated with poisoning are defined in Table 4 . Poison tolerance, the activity at saturation coverage of the poison and resistance, the inverse of deactivation rate, are important concepts that are often encountered in discussions of poisoning including those below.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. Three kinds of poisoning behavior in terms of normalized activity vs. normalized poison concentration (courtesy: Kluwer Academic Publishers).
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. (a) CO poisoning of para-H2 conversion over a Pt foil [22] ; (b) effect of lead coverage on the rate of CO oxidation of Pt film [23] ; (c) rate constants of cyclopropane hydrogenolysis over a Pt film as a function of the amount of AsH3 adsorbed [24] (courtesy: Kluwer Academic Publishers).
Table 4. Important poisoning parameters Parameter Definition Activity (a) Reaction rate at time t relative to that at t=0 Susceptibility (σ) Negative slope of the activity vs. poison concentration curve (σ=(a1)/C(t)); measure of a catalysts sensitivity to a given poison Toxicity Susceptibility of a given catalyst for a poison relative to that for another poison Resistance Inverse of the deactivation rate; property which determines how rapidly a catalyst deactivates Tolerance (a(Csat)) Activity of the catalyst at saturation coverage (many catalysts may have negligible activity at saturation coverage) The activity versus poison concentration patterns illustrated in Fig. 2 are based on the assumption of uniform poisoning of the catalyst surface and surface reaction rate controlling, i.e. negligible pore diffusional resistance. These assumptions, however, are rarely met in typical industrial processes because the severe reaction conditions of high temperature and high pressure bring about a high pore diffusional resistance for either the main or poisoning reaction or both. In physical terms, this means that the reaction may occur preferentially in the outer shell of the catalysts particle, or that poison is preferentially adsorbed in the outer shell of the catalyst particle, or both. The non-uniformly distributed reaction and/or poison leads to non-linear activity versus poison concentration curves which mimic the patterns in Fig. 2 but are not truly selective or anti-selective poisoning. For example, if the main reaction is limited to an outer shell in a pellet where poison is concentrated, the drop in activity with concentration will be precipitous. The effects of pore diffusional effects in poisoning (non-uniform poison) are treated elsewhere [2] ,[4] ,[6] ,[7] ,[8] ,[17] .
As sulfur poisoning is a difficult problem in many important catalytic processes (e.g. hydrogenation, methanation, FischerTropsch synthesis, steam reforming and fuel cell power production), it merits separate discussion as an example of catalyst poisoning phenomena. Studies of sulfur poisoning in hydrogenation and CO hydrogenation reactions have been thoroughly reviewed [8] ,[20] ,[25] ,[26] ,[27] ,[28] ,[29] . Much of the previous work focused on poisoning of nickel metal catalysts by H2S, the primary sulfur poison in many important catalytic processes, and thus provides some useful case studies of poisoning.
Previous adsorption studies [26] ,[28] indicate that H2S adsorbs strongly and dissociatively on nickel metal surfaces. The high stability and low reversibility of adsorbed sulfur is illustrated by the data in Fig. 4 [26] , in which most of the previous equilibrium data for nickel are represented on a single plot of log(PH2S/PH2) versus reciprocal temperature. The solid line corresponds to the equilibrium data for formation of bulk Ni3S2. Based on the equation ΔG0=RT ln , the slope of this line is ΔH/R, where ΔH=75 kJ/mol and the intercept is ΔS/R. Most of the adsorption data lie between the dashed lines corresponding to ΔH=125 and 165 kJ/mol for coverages ranging from 0.5 to 0.9, indicating that adsorbed sulfur is more stable than the bulk sulfide. Indeed, extrapolation of high temperature data to zero coverage using a Tempkin isotherm [27] yields an enthalpy of adsorption of 250 kJ/mol; in other words, at low sulfur coverages, surface nickelsulfur bonds are a factor of three more stable than bulk nickelsulfur bonds. It is apparent from Fig. 4 that the absolute heat of adsorption increases with decreasing coverage and that the equilibrium partial pressure of H2S increases with increasing temperature and increasing coverage. For instance, at 725 K (450C) and θ=0.5, the values of PH2S/PH2 range from about 108 to 109. In other words, half coverage occurs at 110 ppb H2S, a concentration range at the lower limit of our present analytical capability! At the same temperature (450C) almost complete coverage (θ>0.9) occurs at values of PH2S/PH2 of 107106 (0.11 ppm) or at H2S concentrations encountered in many catalytic processes after the gas has been processed to remove sulfur compounds. These data are typical of sulfur adsorption on most catalytic metals. Thus, we can expect that H2S (and other sulfur impurities) will adsorb essentially irreversibly to high coverage in most catalytic processes involving metal catalysts.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. Equilibrium partial pressure of H2S vs. reciprocal temperature (values of ΔHf based on 1 mol of H2S); open symbols, θ=0.50.6; closed symbols, θ=0.80.9 [26] (courtesy: Academic Press).
Two important keys to reaching a deeper understanding of poisoning phenomena include: (1) determining surface structures of poisons adsorbed on metal surfaces and (2) understanding how surface structure and hence adsorption stoichiometry change with increasing coverage of the poison. Studies of structures of adsorbed sulfur on single crystal metals (especially Ni) [26] ,[30] ,[31] ,[32] ,[33] ,[34] provide such information. They reveal, for example, that sulfur adsorbs on Ni(1 0 0) in an ordered P(2×2) overlayer, bonded to four Ni atoms at S/Nis<0.25 and in a C(2×2) overlayer to two Ni atoms for S/Nis=0.250.50 (see Fig. 5 ; Nis denotes a surface atom of Ni); saturation coverage of sulfur on Ni occurs at S/Nis=0.5. Adsorption of sulfur on Ni(1 1 0), Ni(1 1 1) and higher index planes of Ni is more complicated; while the same P(2×2) structure is observed at low coverage, complex overlayers appear at higher coverages, for example, on Ni(1 1 1) in two additional stages (structures) up to saturation at S/Nis=0.5. In more open surface structures such as Ni(1 1 0) and Ni(2 1 0), saturation coverage occurs at S/Nis=0.74 and 1.09, respectively; indeed, there is a trend of increasing S/Nis with decreasing planar density for Ni while the saturation sulfur concentration remains constant at 44 ng/cm2 Ni (see Table 5 ).Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. Schematic view of sulfur adsorbed on a Ni(1 0 0) surface at (a) S/Nis=0.25 in a P(2×2) structure and (b) S/Nis=0.50 in a C(2×2) structure.Table 5. Sulfur adsorption densities on various crystal faces of nickel a Crystal face Sulfur concentration at saturation (ng S/cm2) Number of S atoms/cm2 (×1015) Number of Ni atoms/cm2 (×1015) S atoms per surface Ni atoms (1 1 1) 47  1 0.86 1.8 0.48 (1 0 0) 43  1 0.80 1.6 0.50 (1 1 0) 44.5  1 0.82 1.1 0.74 (2 1 0) 42  1 0.78 0.72 1.09 Polycrystalline 44.5  1 0.82 a Data from [30] .Reported saturation stoichiometries for sulfur adsorption on polycrystalline and supported Ni catalysts vary from S/Nis=0.25 to 1.3 [26] . The values of saturation coverage greater than S/Nis=0.5 may be explained by (1) a higher fraction of adsorption on sites of lower coordination number, i.e. involving more open planes or intersections of planes; (2) adsorption at higher gas phase concentrations of H2S in line with the observed trend of increasing saturation coverage with increasing H2S concentration in Fig. 4 , Fig. 6 ; and/or (3) reconstruction of the surface by adsorbed sulfur at higher adsorption temperatures. The first effect would be favored, and in fact is observed, for supported catalysts of higher dispersion [26] . The second effect may explain the typically lower observed values of S/Nis for single crystal Ni which are measured at extremely low pressures (high vacuum) relative to the higher values of S/Nis for polycrystalline and supported Ni, typically measured at orders of magnitude higher pressure; in the case of the single crystal work the surface is not in equilibrium with gas phase H2S/H2.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 6. Sulfur chemisorption isosteres on a Ni/α-Al2O3 catalyst at high temperatures and high H2S concentrations [35] .The third effect, reconstruction of nickel surfaces by adsorbed sulfur, has been reported by a number of workers [26] ; for example, Edmonds and co-workers [33] ,[34] found that sulfur adsorbed at near saturation coverage on a Ni(1 1 1) face was initially in a hexagonal pattern but upon heating above 700 K reoriented to a distorted C(2×2) structure on a Ni(1 0 0) layer. In another study [31] , sulfur adsorbed on a Ni(8 1 0) caused decomposition to (1 0 0) and (4 1 0) facets. Based on their review of the reconstruction studies, Bartholomew et al. [26] concluded that at high temperatures and near saturation coverages, restructuring by sulfur of different facets of Ni to the more stable Ni(1 0 0) is probably a general phenomenon. If so, the S/Nis ratio at saturation would in principle be 0.5 for the reconstructed surface. In the first example above, restructuring would not affect the S/Nis ratio at saturation, since it is 0.5 for both (1 0 0) and (1 1 1) planes; however, in the second example, the S/Nis ratio at saturation would probably decrease, as rough planes transform to smoother ones. Nevertheless, the possibility of increases in the S/Nis ratio at saturation due to reconstruction cannot be ruled out.In the previous discussion of Fig. 4 , it was observed that ΔHads decreases with increasing sulfur coverage; data in Fig. 6 from Hepola et al. [35] show that ΔHads decreases with increasing gas phase H2S concentration and coverage. However, in contrast to the data in Fig. 4 , those in Fig. 6 [35] show that at very high H2S concentrations and high adsorption temperatures, ΔHads falls well below the ΔHformation of bulk Ni3S2; at the same time the S/Nis ratio approaches that of Ni2S3. This is a unique result, since all of the data obtained at lower temperatures and H2S concentrations [26] show ΔHads to be greater than ΔHformation of Ni3S2.From the above discussion, it is evident that structure and stoichiometry of sulfur adsorbed on nickel are complex functions of temperature, H2S concentration, and sulfur coverage, phenomena which account at least in part for the complex nature of nickel poisoning by sulfur. Sulfur poisoning of nickel is most probably a prototype, i.e. similar aspects of complex poisoning behavior are observed in other poison/metal systems, although none have been studied to the same depth as sulfur/nickel.Since one of the necessary steps in a catalytic reaction is the adsorption of one or more reactants, investigation of the effects of adsorbed sulfur on the adsorption of other molecules, can provide useful insights into the poisoning process [20] ,[26] . Previous investigations [26] ,[36] ,[37] ,[38] ,[39] ,[40] ,[41] ,[42] indicate that both H2 and CO adsorptions on nickel are poisoned by adsorbed sulfur. For example, thermal desorption studies of CO from pre-sulfided Ni(1 0 0) [38] reveal a weakening of the CO adsorption bond and a rapid, non-linear decline in the most strongly bound β2 state (bridged CO) with increasing sulfur coverage corresponding to a poisoning of about 810 Ni atoms for bridged CO adsorption per adsorbed sulfur atom at low sulfur coverage (see Fig. 7 ); moreover, the β2-CO species is completely poisoned at about 0.20.4 ml of sulfur relative to a saturation coverage of 0.5 ml. Hydrogen adsorption is poisoned in a similar non-linear fashion. On the other hand, the coverage of the β1 state (linear CO) is constant with increasing sulfur coverage. The sharp non-linear drop in CO and hydrogen adsorptions at low sulfur coverages has been interpreted in terms of a combination of short-range electronic and steric effects operating over a range of less than 5 a.u. [20] . The different effects of sulfur on β1 and β2 states of CO have important implications for sulfur poisoning in reactions involving CO; that is, sulfur poisoning can affect reaction selectivity as well as activity [26] .Download: Download full-size image Fig. 7. Area under thermal programmed desorption spectra for H2 and the α, β1, β2, and total CO adsorption curves as a function of sulfur pre-coverage [38] .Because sulfur adsorbs so strongly on metals and prevents or modifies the further adsorption of reactant molecules, its presence on a catalyst surface usually effects substantial or complete loss of activity in many important reactions. This is illustrated by the data in Fig. 8 showing the steady-state methanation activities of Ni, Co, Fe, and Ru relative to the fresh, unpoisoned surface activity as a function of gas phase H2S concentration. These data indicate that Ni, Co, Fe, and Ru all suffer 34 orders of magnitude loss in activity at 15100 ppb of H2S, i.e. their sulfur tolerances are extremely low! Moreover, the sharp drop in activity with increasing H2S concentration suggests highly selective poisoning. Nevertheless, the rate of sulfur poisoning and hence sulfur resistance varies from catalyst to catalyst and is apparently a function of catalyst composition [26] and reaction conditions [43] . Indeed, it is possible to significantly improve sulfur resistance of Ni, Co and Fe with catalyst additives such as Mo and B which selectively adsorb sulfur.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 8. Relative steady-state methanation activity profiles for Ni (•), Co (), Fe (), and Ru () as a function of gas phase H2S concentration. Reaction conditions: 100 kPa; 400C; 1% CO/99% H2 for CO, Fe and Ru; 4% CO/96% H2 for Ni [26] .Because the adsorption of sulfur compounds is generally rapid and irreversible, surface sulfur concentrations in catalyst particles and beds are non-uniform, e.g. H2S adsorbs selectively at the entrance to a packed bed and on the outer surface of catalyst particles, making the experimental study and modeling of sulfur poisoning (and poisoning by other strongly held poisons) extremely difficult.There are other complications in the study of sulfur poisoning. For example, the adsorption stoichiometry of sulfur in CO hydrogenation on Ni is apparently a function of the temperature, H2/CO ratio, and water partial pressure [43] . Moreover, at high CO partial pressures sulfur may be removed from the surface as COS, which is not as strongly adsorbed as H2S. At low temperature conditions, e.g. those representative of FischerTropsch synthesis or liquid phase hydrogenations, the gas phase concentration of H2S in poisoning studies must be kept very low, i.e. below 0.15 ppm, to avoid formation of bulk metal sulfides  a phenomenon which seriously compromises the validity of the results. Thus, the importance of studying poisoning phenomena in situ under realistic reaction conditions, at low process-relevant poison concentrations, and over a process-representative range of temperature and concentration conditions is emphasized.There are a number of industrial processes in which one intentionally poisons the catalyst in order to improve its selectivity. For example, Pt-containing naphtha reforming catalysts are often pre-sulfided to minimize unwanted cracking reactions. S and P are added to Ni catalysts to improve isomerization selectivity in the fats and oils hydrogenation industry, while S and Cu are added to Ni catalysts in steam reforming to minimize coking. In catalytic reforming sulfided Re or Sn is added to Pt to enhance the dehydrogenation of paraffins to olefins while poisoning hydrogenolysis/coking reactions. V2O5 is added to Pt to suppress SO2 oxidation to SO3 in diesel emissions control catalysts.
2.2. Fouling, coking and carbon deposition
Fouling is the physical (mechanical) deposition of species from the fluid phase onto the catalyst surface, which results in activity loss due to blockage of sites and/or pores. In its advanced stages it may result in disintegration of catalyst particles and plugging of the reactor voids. Important examples include mechanical deposits of carbon and coke in porous catalysts, although carbon- and coke-forming processes also involve chemisorption of different kinds of carbons or condensed hydrocarbons which may act as catalyst poisons. The definitions of carbon and coke are somewhat arbitrary and by convention related to their origin. Carbon is typically a product of CO disproportionation while coke is produced by decomposition or condensation of hydrocarbons on catalyst surfaces and typically consists of polymerized heavy hydrocarbons. Nevertheless, coke forms may vary from high molecular weight hydrocarbons to primarily carbons such as graphite, depending upon the conditions under which the coke was formed and aged. A number of books and reviews treat the formation of carbons and coke on catalysts and the attendant deactivation of the catalysts [4] ,[44] ,[45] ,[46] ,[47] ,[48] ,[49] .
The chemical structures of cokes or carbons formed in catalytic processes vary with reaction type, catalyst type, and reaction conditions. Menon [49] has suggested that catalytic reactions accompanied by carbon or coke formation can be broadly classified as either coke-sensitive or coke-insensitive, analogous to Boudarts more general classification of structure-sensitive and structure-insensitive catalytic reactions. In coke-sensitive reactions, unreactive coke is deposited on active sites leading to activity decline, while in coke-insensitive reactions, relatively reactive coke precursors formed on active sites are readily removed by hydrogen (or other gasifying agents). Examples of coke-sensitive reactions include catalytic cracking and hydrogenolysis; on the other hand, FischerTropsch synthesis, catalytic reforming and methanol synthesis are examples of coke-insensitive reactions. On the basis of this classification Menon [49] reasoned that the structure and location of a coke are more important than its quantity in affecting catalytic activity.
Consistent with Menons classification, it is also generally observed that not only structure and location of coke vary but also its mechanism of formation varies with catalyst type, e.g. whether it is a metal or metal oxide (or sulfide, sulfides being similar to oxides). Because of these significant differences in mechanism, formation of carbon and coke is discussed below separately for supported metals and for metal oxides and sulfides.
2.2.1. Carbon and coke formation on supported metal catalysts
Possible effects of fouling by carbon (or coke) on the functioning of a supported metal catalyst are illustrated in Fig. 9 . Carbon may (1) chemisorb strongly as a monolayer or physically adsorb in multilayers and in either case block access of reactants to metal surface sites, (2) totally encapsulate a metal particle and thereby completely deactivate that particle, and (3) plug micro- and mesopores such that access of reactants is denied to many crystallites inside these pores. Finally, in extreme cases, strong carbon filaments may build-up in pores to the extent that they stress and fracture the support material, ultimately causing disintegration of catalyst pellets and plugging of reactor voids.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 9. Conceptual model of fouling, crystallite encapsulation and pore plugging of a supported metal catalyst due to carbon deposition.
Mechanisms of carbon deposition and coke formation on metal catalysts from carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons [4] ,[44] ,[45] ,[46] ,[47] ,[48] are illustrated in Fig. 10 , Fig. 11 . Different kinds of carbon and coke which vary in morphology and reactivity are formed in these reactions (see Table 6 , Table 7 ). For example, CO dissociates on metals to form Cα, an adsorbed atomic carbon; Cα can react to Cβ, a polymeric carbon film. The more reactive, amorphous forms of carbons formed at low temperatures (e.g. Cα and Cβ) are converted at high temperatures over a period of time to less reactive, graphitic forms [47] .
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 10. Formation, transformation and gasification of carbon on nickel (a, g, s refer to adsorbed, gaseous and solid states, respectively) [47] .
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 11. Formation and transformation of coke on metal surfaces (a, g, s refer to adsorbed, gaseous and solid states, respectively); gas phase reactions are not considered [47] .
Table 6. Forms and reactivities of carbon species formed by decomposition of CO on nickel [47] Structural type Designation Temperature of formation (C) Peak temperature (C) for reaction with H2 Adsorbed, atomic (surface carbide) Cα 200400 200 Polymeric, amorphous films or filaments Cβ 250500 400 Vermicular filaments, fibers, and/or whiskers Cv 3001000 400600 Nickel carbide (bulk) Cγ 150250 275 Graphitic (crystalline) platelets or films Cc 500550 550850 Table 7. Carbon species formed in steam reforming of hydrocarbons on nickel catalysts [47] Encapsulating film Whisker-like Pyrolytic carbon Formation Slow polymerization of CnHm radicals on Ni-surface, into encapsulating film Diffusion of C through Ni-crystal, nucleation and whisker growth with Ni-crystal at top Thermal cracking of hydrocarbon; deposition of C precursors on catalyst Effects Progressive deactivation No deactivation of Ni-surface; breakdown of catalyst and increasing ΔP Encapsulation of catalyst particle; deactivation and increasing ΔP Temperature range (C) <500 >450 >600 Critical parameters Low temperature High temperature High temperature Low H2O/CnHm Low H2O/CnHm High void fraction Low H2/CnHm No enhanced H2O adsorption Low H2O/CnHm Aromatic feed Low activity High pressure Aromatic feed Acidic catalyst It should also be emphasized, that some forms of carbon result in loss of catalytic activity and some do not. For example, at low temperatures (<300375C) condensed polymer or β-carbon films and at high temperatures (>650C) graphitic carbon films encapsulate the metal surfaces of methanation and steam reforming catalysts [47] . Deactivation of steam reforming catalysts at high reaction temperatures (500900C) may be caused by precipitation of atomic (carbidic) carbon dissolved in the Ni-surface layers to a depth of more than 5070 nm [49] ,[50] . If it accumulates on the metal surface (at high or low temperatures), adsorbed atomic carbon can deactivate metal sites for adsorption and/or reaction. For example, Durer et al. [51] demonstrated that carbon atoms residing in the four-fold hollow sites of Rh(1 0 0) block the adsorption of hydrogen (and hence could block sites for hydrogenation). In the intermediate temperature range of 375650C, carbon filaments ( Fig. 12 ) are formed by precipitation of dissolved carbon at the rear side of metal crystallites causing the metal particles to grow away from the support [44] . Filament growth ceases when sufficient carbon accumulates on the free surface to cause encapsulation by a carbon layer; however, encapsulation of the metal particles does not occur if H2/CO or H2O/hydrocarbon ratios are sufficiently high. Thus, carbon filaments sometimes formed in CO hydrogenation or steam reforming of hydrocarbons would not necessarily cause a loss of intrinsic catalyst activity unless they are formed in sufficient quantities to cause plugging of the pores [47] or loss of metal occurs as the carbon fibers are removed during regeneration [52] ,[53] . However, in practice, regions of carbon forming potential in steam reforming must be carefully avoided, since once initiated, the rates of filamentous carbon formation are sufficiently high to cause catastrophic pore plugging and catalyst failure within a few hours to days.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 12. Electron micrograph of 14% Ni/Al2O3 having undergone extensive carbon deposition during CO disproportionation at 673 K, PCO=4.55 kPa (magnification of 200,000; courtesy: BYU Catalysis Laboratory).The rate at which deactivation occurs for a given catalyst and reaction depends greatly on reaction conditions  especially temperature and reactant composition. A fundamental principle for coke-insensitive reactions on metals (e.g. methanation, FischerTropsch synthesis, steam-reforming, catalytic reforming and methanol synthesis) is that deactivation rate depends greatly on the difference in rates of formation and gasification of carbon/coke precursors, i.e. rd=rfrg. If the rate of gasification rg is equal to or greater than that of formation rf carbon/coke is not deposited. Rates of carbon/coke precursor formation and gasification both increase exponentially with temperature, although the difference between them varies a great deal with temperature because of differences in pre-exponential factors and activation energies. Thus, carbon/coke formation is avoided in regions of temperature in which precursor gasification rate exceeds deposition rate. This is illustrated in Fig. 13 , an Arrhenius plot for rates of formation and hydrogenation of alpha and beta carbons on nickel during CO methanation. Since at temperatures below 600 K (1/T>1.66×103 K1) the rate of Cα gasification exceeds that of Cα formation, no carbon is deposited. However above 600 K, Cα accumulates on the surface since the rate of Cα formation exceeds that of Cα gasification. As Cα accumulates (at 600700 K), it is converted to a Cβ polymeric chain or film which deactivates the nickel catalyst; however, above 700 K (1/T<1.43×103 K1) the rate of Cβ hydrogenation exceeds that of formation and no deactivation occurs. Thus, the safe regions of methanation for avoiding deactivation by carbon are below 600 and above 700 K; of course, these regions will vary somewhat with reactant concentrations and catalyst activity. A similar principle operates in steam reforming, i.e. at a sufficiently low reaction temperature, the rate of hydrocarbon adsorption exceeds the rate of hydrocracking and a deactivating polymer film is formed [54] ; accordingly, it is necessary to operate above this temperature to avoid deactivation.Download: Download full-size image Fig. 13. Rates of formation (ln scale) and hydrogenation of Cα and Cβ vs. reciprocal temperature [47] .In steam reforming filamentous carbon formation rate is a strong function of hydrocarbon structure; for example, it decreases in the order acetylenes, olefins, paraffins, i.e. in the order of decreasing reactivity, although activation energies for nickel are in the same range (125139 kJ) independent of hydrocarbon structure and about the same as those observed for formation of filamentous carbon from decomposition of CO [47] . This latter observation suggests that the reactions of CO and different hydrocarbons to filamentous carbon proceed by a common mechanism and rate determining step  probably the diffusion of carbon through the metal crystallites [47] .The rate at which a carbon or coke is accumulated in a given reaction under given conditions can vary significantly with catalyst structure, including metal type, metal crystallite size, promoter, and catalyst support. For example, supported Co, Fe and Ni are active above 350400C for filamentous carbon formation from CO and hydrocarbons; the order of decreasing activity is reportedly Fe, Co, and Ni [47] . Pt, Ru and Rh catalysts, on the other hand, while equally or more active than Ni, Co, or Fe in steam reforming produce little or no coke or carbon. This is attributed to reduced mobility and/or solubility of carbon in the noble metals, thus retarding the nucleation process. Thus, it is not surprising that addition of noble metals to base metals retards carbon formation; for example, addition of Pt in Ni lowers carbon deposition rate during methanation, while addition of Cu to Ni substantially lowers carbon formation in steam reforming [47] . In a detailed surface science study of submonolayers of Au on Ni(1 1 1), Besenbacher et al. [55] found using STM that the electron density of Ni atoms in the vicinity of Au atoms was increased and from DFT calculations that the strength of carbon adsorption (and hence the tendency to form graphite) was decreased on next-nearest neighbor Ni atoms; from studies of the effects of S adsorption on methane activation and graphite formation on pure Ni, they were able to infer that the ensemble size needed for methane dissociation is smaller than that for graphite formation. These fundamental insights were used in the design of an industrial 0.3% Au-promoted 16% Ni/MgAl2O4 catalyst which loses no activity over 4000 h during steam reforming of n-butane, while the corresponding unpromoted Ni catalyst loses about 5% of its initial activity. In contrast to the moderating effects of noble metal additives, addition of 0.5% Sn to cobalt substantially increases the rate of carbon filament formation from ethylene [56] , an effect desirable in the commercial production of carbon filament fibers.Since carbon formation and gasification rates are influenced differently by modifications in metal crystallite surface chemistry which are in turn a function of catalyst structure; oxide additives or oxide supports may be used to moderate the rate of undesirable carbon or coke accumulation. For example, Bartholomew et al. [57] found the specific rate (turnover frequency) of filamentous carbon deposition on nickel during methanation at 350C to decrease in the order Ni/TiO2, NiAl2O3, Ni/SiO2, while Vance and Bartholomew [58] observed Cα hydrogenation rates at 170C to decrease in this same order (the same as for methanation at 225C). This behavior was explained in terms of promotional or inhibiting effects due to decoration of metal crystallites by the support, silica, for example, inhibiting both CO dissociation and carbon hydrogenation. This hypothesis is consistent with observations [59] ,[60] that silica evaporated on metal surfaces and supported metals inhibits formation of filamentous carbon. Similarly Bitter et al. [61] observed rates of carbon formation in CO2/CH4 reforming to decrease in the order Pt/γ-Al2O3Pt/TiO2>Pt/ZrO2; while 90% of the carbon deposited on the support, the authors linked deactivation to carbon accumulated on the metal due to an imbalance between carbon formed by methane dissociation and oxidation by chemisorbed CO2. The rate of formation of coke in steam reforming is delayed and occurs at lower rates in nickel catalysts promoted with alkali or supported on basic MgO [62] .Since formation of coke, graphite or filamentous carbon involves the formation of CC bonds on multiple atoms sites, one might expect that coke or carbon formation on metals is structure-sensitive, i.e. sensitive to surface structure and metal crystallite size. Indeed, Bitter et al. [61] found that catalysts containing larger Pt crystallites deactivate more rapidly during CO2/CH4 reforming than those containing small crystallites. However, a crystallite size effect, observed in steam reforming of methane on nickel [47] ,[62] , appears to operate in the opposite direction, i.e. formation of filamentous carbon occurs at higher rates in catalysts containing smaller metal crystallites.In summary, deactivation of supported metals by carbon or coke may occur chemically due to chemisorption or carbide formation or physically due to blocking of surface sites, metal crystallite encapsulation, plugging of pores, and destruction of catalyst pellets by carbon filaments. Blocking of catalytic sites by chemisorbed hydrocarbons, surface carbides or relatively reactive films is generally reversible in hydrogen, steam, CO2 or oxygen. Further details of the thermodynamics, kinetics, and mechanisms of carbon and coke formation in methanation and steam reforming reactions are available in reviews by Bartholomew [47] and Rostrup-Nielsen [54] ,[62] .
2.2.2. Coke formation on metal oxide and sulfide catalysts
In reactions involving hydrocarbons, coke may be formed in the gas phase and on both non-catalytic and catalytic surfaces. Nevertheless, formation of coke on oxides and sulfides is principally a result of cracking reactions involving coke precursors (typically olefins or aromatics) catalyzed by acid sites [63] ,[64] . Dehydrogenation and cyclization reactions of carbocation intermediates formed on acid sites lead to aromatics which react further to higher molecular weight polynuclear aromatics and condense as coke (see Fig. 14 ). Reactions 13 in Fig. 14 illustrate the polymerization of olefins, reactions 48 illustrate cyclization from olefins, and reactions 914 illustrate chain reaction formation of polynuclear aromatics which condense as coke on the catalyst surface. Because of the high stability of the polynuclear carbocations (formed in reactions 1013), they can continue to grow on the surface for a relatively long time before a termination reaction occurs through the back donation of a proton.
Download: Download full-size image Download: Download full-size image Fig. 14. Coke-forming reactions of alkenes and aromatics on oxide and sulfide catalysts: (a) polymerization of alkenes; (b) cyclization from alkenes; (c) formation of polynuclear aromatics from benzene ( [8] ; courtesy: Kluwer Academic Publishers).From this mechanistic scheme ( Fig. 14 ) it is clear that olefins, benzene and benzene derivatives, and polynuclear aromatics are precursors to coke formation. However, the order of reactivity for coke formation is clearly structure dependent, i.e. polynuclear alkanes. For example, the amount of coke formed on silica/alumina at 500C is 0.06, 3.8, 12.5, and 23 wt.% for benzene, naphthalene, fluoranthene, and anthracene, respectively [65] .
Coking reactions in processes involving heavy hydrocarbons are very complex; different kinds of coke may be formed and cokes may range in composition from CH to C and have a wide range of reactivities with oxygen and hydrogen depending upon the time-on-stream and temperature to which they are exposed. For example, coke deposits occurring in hydrodesulfurization of residue have been classified into three types [66] :
1.
Type I deposits are reversibly adsorbed normal aromatics deposited during the first part of the cycle at low temperature.
2.
Type II deposits are reversibly adsorbed asphaltenes deposited early in the coking process.
3.
Type III deposits result from condensation of aromatic concentrates into clusters and then crystals which constitute a mesophase. This crystalline phase is formed after long reaction times at high temperature. This hardened coke causes severe deactivation of the catalyst [66] .In addition to hydrocarbon structure and reaction conditions, extent and rate of coke formation are also a function of the acidity and pore structure of the catalyst. Generally, the rate and extent of coke formation increase with increasing acid strength and concentration. Coke yield decreases with decreasing pore size (for a fixed acid strength and concentration); this is especially true in zeolites where shape selectivity plays an important role in coke formation. For example, coke yield in fluid catalytic cracking is only 0.4% for ZSM-5 (pore diameters of nm) compared to 2.2% for Y-faujasite (aperture diameter of 0.72 nm) [64] . However, in pores of molecular diameter, a relatively small quantity of coke can cause substantial loss of activity. It should be emphasized that coke yield can vary considerably into the interior pores of a catalyst particle or along a catalyst bed depending upon the extent to which the main and deactivation reactions are affected by film mass transport and pore diffusional resistance.
The mechanisms by which coke deactivates oxide and sulfide catalysts are, as in the case of supported metals, both chemical and physical. However, some aspects of the chemistry are quite different. The principle chemical loss of activity in oxides and sulfides is due to the strong adsorption of coke molecules on acidic sites. But as discussed earlier, strong acid sites also play an important role in the formation of coke precursors which subsequently undergo condensation reactions to produce large polynuclear aromatic molecules that physically coat catalytic surfaces. Physical loss of activity also occurs as coke accumulates, ultimately partially or completely blocking catalyst pores as in supported metal catalysts. For example, in isomerization of cis-butene on SiO2/Al2O3 [67] catalyst deactivation occurs by rapid, selective poisoning of strong acid sites; coke evolved early in the reaction is soluble in dichloromethane and pyridine and is slightly aromatic. Apparently, the blocking of active sites does not significantly affect porosity or catalyst surface area, as SiO2/Al2O3 contains relatively large mesopores.
In the case of supported bifunctional metal/metal oxide catalysts, different kinds of coke are formed on the metal and the acidic oxide support, e.g. soft coke (high H/C ratio) on Pt or Pt-Re metals and hard coke (low H/C ratio) on the alumina support in catalytic reforming [68] . In this case, coke precursors may be formed on the metal via hydrogenolysis, following which they migrate to the support and undergo polymerization and cyclization reactions, after which the larger molecules are dehydrogenated on the metal and finally accumulate on the support causing loss of isomerization activity. Mild sulfiding of these catalysts (especially Pt-Re/alumina) substantially reduces the rate of hydrogenolysis and the overall formation of coke on both metal and support; it especially reduces the hard coke, which is mainly responsible for deactivation.
Several recent studies [64] ,[69] ,[70] ,[71] ,[72] ,[73] ,[74] ,[75] ,[76] ,[77] ,[78] ,[79] have focused on coke formation during hydrocarbon reactions in zeolites including (1) the detailed chemistry of coke precursors and coke molecules formed in zeolite pores and pore intersections (or supercages) and (2) the relative importance of adsorption on acid sites versus pore blockage. The principal conclusions from these studies can be summarized as follows: (1) the formation of coke and the manner in which it deactivates a zeolite catalyst are shape-selective processes, (2) deactivation is mainly due to the formation and retention of heavy aromatic clusters in pores and pore intersections, and (3) while both acid-site poisoning and pore blockage participate in the deactivation, the former dominates at low coking rates, low coke coverages (e.g. in Y-zeolite below 2 wt.%) and high temperatures, while the latter process dominates at high reaction rates, low temperatures, and high coke coverages. Thus, pore size and pore structure are probably more important than acid strength and density under typical commercial process conditions. Indeed, deactivation is typically more rapid in zeolites having small pores or apertures and/or a monodimensional structure [77] .
Fig. 15 illustrates four possible modes of deactivation of HZSM-5 by carbonaceous deposits with increasing severity of coking according to Guisnet et al.
[77] .
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 15. Schematic of the four possible modes of deactivation by carbonaceous deposits in HZSM-5: (1) reversible adsorption on acid sites, (2) irreversible adsorption on sites with partial blocking of pore intersections, (3) partial steric blocking of pores, and (4) extensive steric blocking of pores by exterior deposits [77] .
These conclusions (in the previous paragraph) are borne out, for example, in the study by Cerqueira et al.
[79] of USHY-zeolite deactivation during methylcyclohexane transformation at 450C showing the following:
1.
Coke is probably mainly formed by rapid transformation of ethylenic C7 carbenium ions with lesser contributions from reactions of cyclopentadiene, C3C6 olefins, and aromatics.
2.
Soluble coke consists of polynuclear aromatic clusters containing three to seven five- and six-membered rings having a typical compositions of C30H40 to C40H44 and having dimensions of nm to nm, i.e. sizes that would cause them to be trapped in the supercages of Y-zeolite.
3.
At short contact times, coking is relatively slow and deactivation is mainly due to acid-site poisoning, while at long contact times, coking is much faster because of the high concentrations of coke precursors; under these latter conditions coke is preferentially deposited at the outer pore openings of zeolite crystallites and deactivation is dominated by pore mouth blockage.
That coke formed at large contact times not only blocks pores and/or pore intersections inside the zeolite, but also migrates to the outside of zeolite crystallites where it blocks pore entrances has been observed in several studies [73] ,[75] ,[76] ,[79] . However, the amount, structure and location of coke in ZSM-5 depends strongly on the coke precursor, e.g. coke formed from mesitylene is deposited on the external zeolite surface, whereas coking with isobutene leads to largely paraffinic deposits inside pores; coke from toluene, on the other hand, is polyaromatic and is deposited both on external and internal zeolite surfaces [73] .
2.3. Thermal degradation and sintering
2.3.1. Background
Thermally induced deactivation of catalysts results from (i) loss of catalytic surface area due to crystallite growth of the catalytic phase, (ii) loss of support area due to support collapse and of catalytic surface area due to pore collapse on crystallites of the active phase, and/or (iii) chemical transformations of catalytic phases to non-catalytic phases. The first two processes are typically referred to as sintering. The third is discussed in the next section under solidsolid reactions. Sintering processes generally take place at high reaction temperatures (e.g. >500C) and are generally accelerated by the presence of water vapor.
Most of the previous sintering and redispersion work has focused on supported metals. Experimental and theoretical studies of sintering and redispersion of supported metals published before 1997 have been reviewed fairly extensively [8] ,[80] ,[81] ,[82] ,[83] ,[84] ,[85] ,[86] ,[87] ,[88] ,[89] . Three principal mechanisms of metal crystallite growth have been advanced: (1) crystallite migration, (2) atomic migration, and (3) (at very high temperatures) vapor transport. The processes of crystallite and atomic migration are illustrated in Fig. 16 . Crystallite migration involves the migration of entire crystallites over the support surface followed by collision and coalescence. Atomic migration involves detachment of metal atoms from crystallites, migration of these atoms over the support surface and ultimately, capture by larger crystallites. Redispersion, the reverse of crystallite growth in the presence of O2 and/or Cl2, may involve (1) formation of volatile metal oxide or metal chloride complexes which attach to the support and are subsequently decomposed to small crystallites upon reduction and/or (2) formation of oxide particles or films that break into small crystallites during subsequent reduction.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 16. Two conceptual models for crystallite growth due to sintering by (A) atomic migration or (B) crystallite migration.
There has been some controversy in the literature regarding which mechanism of sintering (or redispersion) operates at a given set of conditions. However, each of the three sintering mechanisms (and two dispersion mechanisms) is a simplification which ignores the possibility that all mechanisms may occur simultaneously and may be coupled with each other through complex physicochemical processes including the following: (1) dissociation and emission of metal atoms or metal-containing molecules from metal crystallites, (2) adsorption and trapping of metal atoms or metal-containing molecules on the support surface, (3) diffusion of metal atoms, metal-containing molecules and/or metal crystallites across support surfaces, (4) metal or metal oxide particle spreading, (5) support surface wetting by metal or metal oxide particles, (6) metal particle nucleation, (7) coalescence of, or bridging between, two metal particles, (8) capture of atoms or molecules by metal particles, (9) liquid formation, (10) metal volatilization through volatile compound formation, (11) splitting of crystallites in O2 atmosphere due to formation of oxides of a different specific volume, and (12) metal atom vaporization. Depending upon reaction or redispersion conditions, a few or all of these processes may be important; thus, the complexity of sintering/redispersion processes is emphasized.
In general, sintering processes are kinetically slow (at moderate reaction temperatures) and irreversible or difficult to reverse. Thus, sintering is more easily prevented than cured.
2.3.2. Factors affecting metal particle growth and redispersion in supported metals
Temperature, atmosphere, metal type, metal dispersion, promoters/impurities and support surface area, texture and porosity, are the principal parameters affecting rates of sintering and redispersion (see Table 8 ,[8] ,[85] ,[86] ,[87] ,[88] ,[89] ). Sintering rates increase exponentially with temperature. Metals sinter relatively rapidly in oxygen and relatively slowly in hydrogen, although depending upon the support, metal redispersion can be facilitated by exposure at high temperature (e.g. 500550C for Pt/Al2O3) to oxygen and chlorine followed by reduction. Water vapor also increases the sintering rate of supported metals.
Table 8. Effects of important reaction and catalyst variables on sintering rates of supported metals based on GPLE data [8] ,[85] ,[86] ,[87] ,[88] ,[89] Variable Effect Temperature Sintering rates are exponentially dependent on T; Eact varies from 30 to 150 kJ/mol; Eact decreases with increasing metal loading; it increases in the following order with atmosphere: NO, O2, H2, N2 Atmosphere Sintering rates are much higher for noble metals in O2 than in H2 and higher for noble and base metals in H2 relative to N2; sintering rate decreases for supported Pt in atmospheres in the following order: NO, O2, H2, N2 Metal Observed order of decreasing thermal stability in H2 is Ru > Ir  Rh > Pt; thermal stability in O2 is a function of (1) volatility of metal oxide and (2) strength of metal oxidesupport interaction Support Metalsupport interactions are weak (bond strengths of 515 kJ/mol); with a few exceptions, thermal stability for a given metal decreases with support in the following order: Al2O3 > SiO2 > carbon Promoters Some additives decrease atom mobility, e.g. C, O, CaO, BaO, CeO2, GeO2; others increase atom mobility, e.g. Pb, Bi, Cl, F, or S; oxides of Ba, Ca, or Sr are trapping agents that decrease sintering rate Pore size Sintering rates are lower for porous vs. non-porous supports; they decrease as crystallite diameters approach those of the pores Normalized dispersion (percentage of metal exposed at any time divided by the initial percentage exposed) versus time data in Fig. 17 show that at temperatures of 650C or higher, rates of metal surface area loss (measured by hydrogen chemisorption) due to sintering of Ni/silica in hydrogen atmosphere are significant, causing 70% loss of the original metal surface area within 50 h at 750C. In reducing atmosphere, metal crystallite stability generally decreases with decreasing metal melting temperature, i.e. in the order Ru>Ir>Rh>Pt>Pd>Ni>Cu>Ag, although this order may be affected by relatively stronger metalsupport interactions, e.g. the observed order of decreasing stability of supported platinum in vacuum is Pt/Al2O3>Pt/SiO2>Pt/C. In oxidizing atmospheres, metal crystallite stability depends on the volatility of metal oxides and the strength of the metal oxidesupport interaction. For noble metals, metal stability in air decreases in the order Rh>Pt>Ir>Ru; formation of volatile RuO4 accounts for the relative instability of ruthenium.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 17. Normalized nickel surface area (based on H2 adsorption) vs. time data during sintering of 13.5% Ni/SiO2 in H2 at 650, 700 and 750C [93] .
Promoters or impurities affect sintering and redispersion by either increasing (e.g. chlorine and sulfur) or decreasing (e.g. oxygen, calcium and cesium) metal atom mobility on the support. Similarly, support surface defects or pores impede surface migration of metal particles  especially micropores and mesopores with pore diameters about the same size as the metal crystallite.
Historically, sintering rate data were fitted to a simple power law expression (SPLE) of the form:(1) where ks is the sintering rate constant, D0 the initial dispersion, and n is the sintering order, which for typical catalyst systems may vary from 3 to 15; unfortunately, the SPLE is in general not valid for sintering processes because it assumes that surface area or dispersion ultimately reaches zero given sufficient time, when in fact, for a given temperature and atmosphere, a non-zero or limiting dispersion is observed after long sintering times. Moreover, the use of the SPLE is further questionable because variations in sintering order are observed as a function of time and temperature for a given catalyst in a fixed atmosphere [87] ,[88] ,[89] ; thus, data obtained for different samples and different reaction conditions cannot be quantitatively compared. Nevertheless, it has been shown by Fuentes [90] and Bartholomew and co-workers [85] ,[86] ,[87] ,[88] that the effects of temperature, atmosphere, metal, promoter, and support can be quantitatively determined by fitting sintering kinetic data to the general power law expression (GPLE) (2) which adds a term Deq/D0 to account for the observed asymptotic approach of the typical dispersion versus time curve to a limiting dispersion Deq at infinite time; m, the order of sintering, is found to be either 1 or 2. A recently compiled, comprehensive quantitative treatment of previous sintering rate data based on the GPLE with an order of 2 (m=2) [86] ,[87] ,[88] quantitatively addresses the effects of catalyst properties and reaction conditions on sintering rate. Some of these data are summarized in Table 9 [91] ,[92] ,[93] ,[94] . These data show, for example, that the rate constant and hence the rate of sintering is less for Ni/alumina than for Pt/alumina, an unexpected result in view of the lower heat of vaporization for Ni. This result is possibly explained by a greater metalsupport interaction for Ni with alumina.
Table 9. Comparison of second-order sintering rate constants and activation energies for Pt, Ni and Ag catalysts [88] Catalyst Atmosphere D0 a ks b (400C) ks (650C) ks (700C) ks (750C) Eact c (kJ/mol) Reference
0.6% Pt/γ-Al2O3 H2 0.85 0.007 0.310 0.530 1.32 79
[91] 5% Pt/Al2O3 H2 0.10 0.420 0.76 0.84 0.97 13 [92] 15% Ni/γ-Al2O3 H2 0.16 0.004 0.083 0.13 0.27 66 [93]
0.6% Pt/γ-Al2O3 Air 0.85 0.024 0.29 0.41 0.75 52
[91] 5% Pt/Al2O3 Air 0.10 0.014 1.46 2.79 8.51 97 [92]
1.8% Ag/η-Al2O3 Air 0.36 0.69


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Explain the reverse Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), detailing its three steps (dissociative adsorption, β-H extraction, and desorption), and critically discuss the ongoing debate regarding whether the dissociative adsorption process or the β-H extraction is the rate-controlling step in this reaction. How does this uncertainty impact our understanding of the PDH process?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 