<quotes>
[1] "In the study of Koper et al.,66 the binding energies and geometries of CO and OH were computed for PtRu, PtMo and PtSn catalysts. According to their calculations, the PtMo and PtSn catalysts seemed to be better CO oxidation catalysts than PtRu catalysts."
[2] "On the other hand, an interesting topic is to explore CO oxidation and MOR on preferentially oriented Pt nanoparticles (i.e., shape-dependent/facet-dependent electrocatalysis).19,23,3537"
[3] "For the size-dependent MOR, this was attributed to a combination of increased strength of adsorption of both COads and OHads on Pt particles lower than 5 nm,34 or a ensemble effect where dehydrogenation was impeded by the sharply decreasing availability of contiguous Pt terrace sites for Pt particle lower than 4 nm.27"
[4] "In the study of Zhou, Pt/CNT modified with HxMoO3 exhibited higher electrocatalytic activity towards MOR and better CO tolerance than the corresponding Pt/CNT."
[5] "For example, in the work of Zhou et al.64 the bifunctional mechanism was highlighted in the case of multisegment PtNi nanorods (e.g., NiPt, NiPtNi, NiPtNiPt and NiPtNiPtNi). A linear relationship was found between the peak current densities and the number of PtNi interfaces in cyclic voltammetry. Moreover, the decay rate of the current slowed with increasing numbers of PtNi interfaces."
[6] "In the study on PtPd nanotubes,88 Yan demonstrated that the mass activity of PtPd nanotubes was 1.4 times higher than that of Pt/C."
[7] "In the extensive screening of nearly 750 binary transition metal surface alloys,103 a large number of alloys were predicted to have high electrocatalytic activity for ORR."
[8] "Specifically, when a platinum monolayer was deposited on Au(111), Ir(111), Pd(111), Rh(111), and Ru(0001) surfaces, the volcano-type relationship was observed between ORR activity and the d-band centre."
[9] "However, the presence of catalysts such as Pt is believed to reduce the potential of carbon oxidation and accelerate carbon corrosion."
[10] "In contrast to base metal modification of Pt, Pt nanoparticles modified by Au clusters displayed neglectable loss of activity after 30000 potential cycles between 0.7 and 1.1 V."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The PtMo and PtSn catalysts were calculated to be more effective for CO oxidation compared to the PtRu catalysts based on binding energies and geometries of CO and OH.
2. Research indicates that exploring CO oxidation and methane oxidation (MOR) on preferentially oriented Pt nanoparticles can lead to facet-dependent electrocatalysis.
3. The increased strength of adsorption of both CO and OH adsorbates on Pt particles smaller than 5nm contributes to the size-dependent enhancement of methane oxidation (MOR).
4. The Pt/CNT modified with HxMoO3 catalyst showed higher activity towards methane oxidation (MOR) and better CO tolerance compared to the unmodified Pt/CNT.
5. The work of Zhou et al. highlighted the bifunctional mechanism in multisegment PtNi nanorods, observing a linear relationship between peak current densities and the number of PtNi interfaces, with slower decay rate at higher interface numbers.
6. The mass activity of PtPd nanotubes was found to be 1.4 times higher than that of Pt/C.
7. The extensive screening of binary transition metal surface alloys predicted numerous catalysts with high activity for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).
8. Depositing a platinum monolayer on various surfaces like Au(111), Ir(111), Pd(111), Rh(111), and Ru(0001) surfaces resulted in a volcano-type relationship between ORR activity and the d-band center.
9. The presence of catalysts like Pt reduces the potential for carbon oxidation, accelerating carbon corrosion.
10. Pt nanoparticles modified by Au clusters exhibited negligible loss of activity after 30,000 potential cycles between 0.7 and 1.1V.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 根据结合能和CO、OH几何形状的计算，研究发现PtMo和PtSn催化剂在CO氧化中比PtRu催化剂更有效。
2. 研究表明，探索具有特定晶面的Pt纳米颗粒上的CO氧化和甲烷氧化（MOR）可以导致晶面依赖的电催化性。
3. 小于5nm的Pt颗粒上CO和OH吸附剂吸附强度的增强是尺寸依赖的MOR增强的原因。
4. Pt/CNT通过HxMoO3改性后，其向MOR的活性和对CO的耐受性高于未改性的Pt/CNT。
5. 周等人的工作强调了在PtNi纳米棒中多段结构中的双功能机制，观察到峰电流密度与PtNi界面数量之间存在线性关系，并且随着界面数量的增加，电流衰减速率变慢。
6. PtPd纳米管的总活性被发现比Pt/C高1.4倍。
7. 对近750种二元过渡金属表面合金的广泛筛选预测了许多催化剂具有高ORR活性。
8. 在Au(111)、Ir(111)、Pd(111)、Rh(111)和Ru(0001)表面上沉积铂单层后，观察到了ORR活性与d带中心之间的火山型关系。
9. Pt等催化剂的存在降低了碳氧化的潜力，加速了碳腐蚀。
10. Pt纳米颗粒通过Au簇修饰后，在0.7至1.1V的电压范围内进行了30,000次循环后，表现出几乎无活性损失。
