<quotes>
[1] "The isomerization of saturated hydrocarbons on acidic catalysts such as silica-alumina has been extensively studied and the mechanisms of these reactions involve carbonium ions as intermediates."
[2] "Similar reactions take place at a much lower temperature, when a metal has been deposited on these acidic catalysts."
[3] "Very little attention has been paid to a possible catalytic effect of the metal itself in the isomerization."
[4] "The isomerization of n-hexane (I), 2-methylpentane (II), and 3-methylpentane (III) were studied on various supported platinum catalysts, and the initial product distributions compared and identified with Che initial distributions of the hydrogenolysis of methylcyclopentane."
[5] "These results suggest that a common cyclopentane intermediate is involved in both reactions, adsorbed on the metal sites of the catalysts."
[6] "The absence of 2,3-dimethylbutane in the product distributions, the simultaneous dehydroeyclization of (I), (II), and (III) to methylcyclopentane, and the difficulty of isomerizing the 2,3-dimethylbutane under the same conditions, are consistent with the proposed mechanism."
[7] "The mechanism probably involves a species adsorbed on two carbon atoms in the α,β positions and is very similar in its effects to a carbonium ion mechanism."
[8] "The aromatization of acyclic and cyclic hydrocarbons takes place under the same conditions as isomerization and will also be considered; it will also be interesting to examine the part played by the metal in this reaction, since the mechanism of aromatization is often taken as an example of a dual mechanism."
[9] "The activity of the carrier was tested for the isomerization of methyleyclopent-l-ene molecular weight hydrocarbons could only be detected at 350C (1.5%) and was smaller than 3% at 400C; cracking to hexenes and isomerization to cyclohexenes were not observed up to 450C."
[10] "Very large amounts of 2,3-dimethylbutane were formed on platinum films. The presence of 2,2-dimethylbutane was ascertained by the retention time in chromatography on a silicone oil column, correct within 0.5%,and by the mass spectra, after gas chromatographic separation."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The isomerization of saturated hydrocarbons on acidic catalysts typically involves carbonium ions as intermediates. Depositing a metal on these catalysts can lead to similar reactions at lower temperatures. While there is limited attention to the metal's catalytic effect in isomerization, studies on various supported platinum catalysts have shown that isomerization of n-hexane, 2-methylpentane, and 3-methylpentane leads to a common cyclopentane intermediate adsorbed on the metal sites. This intermediate is responsible for the observed reactions, including the simultaneous dehydrocyclization of these compounds to methylcyclopentane. The mechanism likely involves a species adsorbed on two carbon atoms in the α,β positions, similar to a carbonium ion mechanism. Aromatic hydrocarbons undergo isomerization under the same conditions, and the role of the metal in this process is also examined due to the dual mechanism often associated with aromatization. The isomerization of methyleyclopent-l-ene was detected only at 350°C, with cracking to lower molecular weight hydrocarbons not observed up to 450°C. Large amounts of 2,3-dimethylbutane were formed on platinum films, indicating a preference for certain reactions on these surfaces.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
饱和烃在酸性催化剂如硅铝酸盐上的异构化通常涉及碳离子作为中间体。将金属沉积在这些催化剂上可以在较低温度下导致类似的反应。对于金属本身在异构化中的催化作用的关注较少，但对各种负载铂催化剂的研究显示，庚烷、2-甲基戊烷和3-甲基戊烷的异构化产生了一个共同的环戊烷中间体，吸附在催化剂的金属位点上。这个中间体负责观察到的反应，包括这些化合物同时脱氢环化为甲基环戊烷。机制可能涉及吸附在α,β位置的两个碳原子上的物种，类似于碳离子机制。芳香族烃在相同的条件下进行异构化，并且对金属在该过程中的作用也进行了研究，因为芳香化经常被视为双机制的一个例子。在350°C检测到了甲基环戊-1-烯的异构化，直到450°C没有观察到裂解到低分子量烃。在铂薄膜上形成了大量2,3-二甲基丁烷，表明在这些表面上存在特定的反应倾向。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
