<quotes>
[1] "Since the size, the structure, or the composition of supported bimetallics is difficult to control for active phases obtained by chemical methods, it is generally not straightforward to compare the catalytic properties of a bimetallic catalyst to those of a monometallic one."
[2] "The purpose of this paper is to show that all these criteria are fulfilled by using the laser vaporization technique."
[3] "We have demonstrated that no synergy between the two elements can be evidenced, the rates being perfectly explained by an additivity of the properties of the two metals."
[4] "The nonlinear dependence of the rate as a function of the Pt surface concentration is interpreted by the presence of an adsorption site for the aromatic molecule composed of a pair of atoms."
[5] "This integrated theoretical and experimental approach can be utilized to predict hydrogenation activity and inform the design of more efficient Pt-3d catalytic systems."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The document discusses difficulties in controlling the size, structure, or composition of supported bimetallic catalysts when they are synthesized using chemical methods, which makes comparing their catalytic properties to those of monometallic catalysts challenging. 

2. The authors aim to demonstrate that using the laser vaporization technique fulfills the criteria for obtaining bimetallic clusters with a uniform composition, enabling a better comparison between bimetallic and monometallic catalysts.

3. No evidence of synergy between the two elements in bimetallic catalysts is found, with the observed rates being explained by the additive properties of the two metals.

4. The nonlinear relationship between the rate of the reaction and the Pt surface concentration is attributed to the presence of an adsorption site for the aromatic molecule made up of a pair of atoms.

5. An integrated theoretical and experimental approach, combining DFT calculations of surface d-band center and adsorbate binding energies with techniques like TPD measurements, can be used to predict hydrogenation activity and guide the design of more efficient Pt-3d catalytic systems.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 文档讨论了使用化学方法合成支持型双金属催化剂时，难以控制其大小、结构或组成的问题，这使得将它们的催化性能与单金属催化剂进行比较变得不那么直接。

2. 作者的目标是展示通过使用激光蒸发技术可以满足所有这些标准，从而实现获得具有均匀组成的双金属簇，这使得能够更好地比较双金属和单金属催化剂的性能。

3. 在双金属催化剂中没有发现两个元素之间的协同作用证据，观察到的速率完全由两种金属的性质相加解释。

4. 反应速率与铂表面浓度之间非线性的关系归因于芳香分子吸附位点的存在，该位点由一对原子组成。

5. 结合表面d带中心和吸附剂结合能的DFT计算以及TPD等测量技术的理论和实验方法集成，可以用来预测氢化反应活性，并指导设计更高效的Pt-3d催化系统。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
