<quotes>

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
[2] "Direct dehydrogenation of lower alkanes is an energy intensive reaction; however, oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation."
[3] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
[4] "Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation."
[5] "Although ODH is attractive because of the energy intensification advantage, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e. proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts."
[6] "In this report, we provide an overview on CH activation and reaction routes to alkane dehydrogenation."
[7] "We seek to gain insights about components of the active sites of CH activation to provide a platform for rational design of new efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
[8] "We focus on propane dehydrogenation because of the need for alternative and/or complementary technology for propene production to supplement existing technologies."
[9] "We survey non-oxidative and oxidative dehydrogenation approaches, and examine reaction routes that are intermediate between these two main approaches."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods by providing an alternative and/or complementary technology for propene production. PDH is an energy-intensive reaction, but oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) has the potential to lower the energy requirement for achieving dehydrogenation. However, commercial ODH technologies hinge on innovative catalyst and process design, i.e., proper synergy of the endothermic dehydrogenation step with the exothermic hydrogen combustion and design of selective CH and hydrogen combustion catalysts. Despite a large number of reports and many reviews covering different aspects of the subject, and more than two decades of investigations on ODH, gaps still exist between laboratory achievements and industrial implementation. To overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes, researchers are focusing on CH activation and reaction routes to alkane dehydrogenation, seeking to gain insights about components of the active sites of CH activation to provide a platform for rational design of new efficient catalysts for dehydrogenation of lower alkanes.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢（PDH）技术通过提供一种替代和/或补充技术来生产丙烯，以满足工业对丙烯日益增长的需求，解决传统生产方法的局限性。PDH是一种能量密集型反应，但氧化脱氢（ODH）有潜力降低实现脱氢所需的能量需求。然而，商业ODH技术取决于创新的催化剂和工艺设计，即，适当的热力学脱氢步骤与放热氢燃烧的协同作用，以及选择性CH和氢燃烧催化剂的设计。尽管有大量的报告和许多涵盖该主题不同方面的评论，以及对ODH进行了超过二十年的研究，但实验室成果与工业实施之间仍然存在差距。为了克服氧化和非氧化PDH过程中的失活问题，提高稳定性，改善可回收性，研究人员正在关注CH活化和烷烃脱氢的反应途径，寻求了解CH活化活性位点的组成部分，为设计新的高效催化剂提供平台，用于脱氢较低的烷烃。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
