<quotes>

[1] "Catalyst improvement endeavors can benefit from insights on alkane CH bond activation mechanisms."
[2] "The electronic promotion effect of Sn is in line with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism."
[3] "However, the promoted Pt catalyst reportedly suffered from a short half-life due to the volatility of the active phase of the catalyst in the reaction condition."
[4] "The catalyst is produced by soft landing of Pt810 clusters on porous anodized aluminum oxide (AAO, Anopore) membranes coated with alumina (Al2O3/AAO) by atomic layer deposition (ALD)."
[5] "The performance of this catalyst can be explained in part by molecular theory of the structure sensitivity of catalytic reactions."
[6] "CH bond activation is categorized as a class II surface sensitivity, and catalytic reaction rate in this category increases with decreasing particle size of the active metal."
[7] "The electronic transition energies of the supported metal oxides ( Fig. 7 , Fig. 8 )."
[8] "VOx is the most promising ODH catalyst among the groups V and VI transition metal oxides ( Fig. 7 , Fig. 8 )."
[9] "However, there remains the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over the VOx (groups V and VI transition metal oxides)."
[10] "This suggests that the NiOx is the main active phase of the catalyst and the lower propene yield of entry 2 in Table 3 may be attributable to a lower density of NiOx phase in the catalyst."
[11] "Although the ODH of alkanes over NiOx-based catalysts has been explained using a parallel-consecutive reaction network and the Marsvan Krevelen mechanism [169] , there are indications that the Ni-center directly participates in the CH activation step."
[12] "Since electron-deficient late transition metal cations are electrophilic, direct participation of the Ni-center via electrophilic metalation cannot be ruled out."
[13] "Rational design of an efficient NiOx-based ODH catalyst should first identify a compatible surface oxygen species and hydrogen species (proton, hydride or hydrogen atom) involved in CH activation, and then create a solid matrix that can selectively produce these species when exposed to molecular oxygen."
[14] "It appears that some degree of compatibility is present between the CH of ethane and the active oxygen species in NiOLiCl/SZ."
[15] "Entries 37 of Table 3 show similar propene yield, probably because the active oxygen species are produced on the catalysts during the reaction."
[16] "Differences in propane conversion and propene selectivities may be due to difference in catalyst surface areas and space velocities."
[17] "The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts."
[18] "VOx phase(s) in which the oxygen ligands of VOx are bonded to the catalyst support by non-covalent forces are critical for high alkene selectivity."
[19] "Analyses of NiOx (NiOLiCl/SZ); Li-doped MgO and halide-containing catalysts (MgDyLiCl, CeO2/2CeF3, etc.) suggest electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms."
[20] "Electrophilic CH activation occurs over the electron-deficient Ni-center in the NiOLiCl/SZ catalyst, while nucleophilic CH activations occur through the [OX, where X = Cl, F] centers in Mg-Dy-Li-Cl and CeO2/2CeF3 catalysts."
[21] "Thus CH activation on heterogeneous catalysts can be a continuum from an electrophilic to ambiphilic to nucleophilic attack on the substrate, depending on the metal center and the surface oxygen species of ligands."
[22] "This continuum had been identified for CH activation in homogeneous catalyst systems."
[23] "Insights from the homogeneous catalyst systems can provide new perspectives in the quest for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts."
[24] "Also sMMO and pMMO enzymes have been known to activate CH bonds at very mild conditions."
[25] "Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 have been implicated to contain sites that mimic the active sites of these enzymes."
[26] "The enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide insight into the performance of the CuAl catalyst reported by Rotenberg and co-workers [71] ."
[27] "It seems clear that exploring possibilities of creating active site mimics (enzymes and homogeneous catalysts) in solid frameworks is a promising direction toward efficient CH activation and alkane dehydrogenation over heterogeneous catalysts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) techniques address the challenges of increasing industrial demand for propylene and the limitations of traditional production methods by providing alternative routes for propylene production. Innovative catalyst design strategies are being developed to overcome deactivation issues, enhance stability, and improve recyclability in both oxidative and nonoxidative PDH processes. Catalyst improvement efforts benefit from insights on alkane CH bond activation mechanisms. The electronic promotion effect of Sn is in line with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism. However, promoted Pt catalysts reportedly suffer from a short half-life due to the volatility of the active phase of the catalyst in the reaction condition. New catalysts, such as sub-nanometer platinum clusters, display high propene yields and turnover frequency in oxygen co-fed propane dehydrogenation. The catalyst is produced by soft landing of Pt810 clusters on porous anopore membranes coated with alumina by atomic layer deposition (ALD). The performance of this catalyst can be explained by molecular theory of the structure sensitivity of catalytic reactions. CH bond activation is categorized as a class II surface sensitivity, and catalytic reaction rate in this category increases with decreasing particle size of the active metal. The electronic transition energies of the supported metal oxides are critical for the performance of oxidative dehydrogenation catalysts. VOx is the most promising ODH catalyst among the groups V and VI transition metal oxides. However, there remains the challenge of decreased propene selectivity with increasing alkane conversion over the VOx (groups V and VI transition metal oxides). NiOx-based catalysts show promise for oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes, with indications that the Ni-center directly participates in the CH activation step. Rational design of an efficient NiOx-based ODH catalyst should first identify a compatible surface oxygen species and hydrogen species (proton, hydride or hydrogen atom) involved in CH activation, and then create a solid matrix that can selectively produce these species when exposed to molecular oxygen. It appears that some degree of compatibility is present between the CH of ethane and the active oxygen species in NiOLiCl/SZ. Entries 37 of Table 3 show similar propene yield, probably because the active oxygen species are produced on the catalysts during the reaction. Differences in propane conversion and propene selectivities may be due to difference in catalyst surface areas and space velocities. The nature of the VOx phase is critical to the performance of VOx-based catalysts. VOx phase(s) in which the oxygen ligands of VOx are bonded to the catalyst support by non-covalent forces are critical for high alkene selectivity. Analyses of NiOx (NiOLiCl/SZ); Li-doped MgO and halide-containing catalysts (MgDyLiCl, CeO2/2CeF3, etc.) suggest electrophilic and nucleophilic CH activation mechanisms. Electrophilic CH activation occurs over the electron-deficient Ni-center in the NiOLiCl/SZ catalyst, while nucleophilic CH activations occur through the [OX, where X = Cl, F] centers in Mg-Dy-Li-Cl and CeO2/2CeF3 catalysts. Thus CH activation on heterogeneous catalysts can be a continuum from an electrophilic to ambiphilic to nucleophilic attack on the substrate, depending on the metal center and the surface oxygen species of ligands. This continuum had been identified for CH activation in homogeneous catalyst systems. Insights from the homogeneous catalyst systems can provide new perspectives in the quest for efficient heterogeneous alkane dehydrogenation catalysts. Also sMMO and pMMO enzymes have been known to activate CH bonds at very mild conditions. Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 have been implicated to contain sites that mimic the active sites of these enzymes. The enzyme-mimic sites in Fe-ZSM-5 and Cu-ZSM-5 may provide insight into the performance of the CuAl catalyst reported by Rotenberg and co-workers. It seems clear that exploring possibilities of creating active site mimics (enzymes and homogeneous catalysts) in solid frameworks is a promising direction toward efficient CH activation and alkane dehydrogenation over heterogeneous catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷脱氢(PDH)技术通过提供丙烯生产的替代途径，解决了工业对丙烯需求增加和传统生产方法局限性的挑战。正在开发创新的催化剂设计策略，以克服氧化和非氧化PDH过程中的失活问题，提高稳定性和可回收性。催化剂改进工作得益于对烷烃CH键活化机制的洞察。Sn的电子促进效应与氧化加成CH活化机制一致。然而，据报道，增强的Pt催化剂由于催化剂活性相在反应条件下的挥发性，其半衰期较短。新型催化剂，如亚纳米铂簇，在氧气共喂丙烷脱氢中显示出高丙烯产量和周转频率。该催化剂是通过原子层沉积(ALD)在多孔anopore膜上软着陆Pt810簇来生产的。该催化剂的性能可以通过催化反应结构敏感性的分子理论来解释。CH键活化被归类为II类表面敏感性，该类别的催化反应速率随活性金属粒径的减小而增加。支持金属氧化物的电子跃迁能是氧化脱氢催化剂性能的关键。VOx是V和VI族过渡金属氧化物中最有前景的ODH催化剂。然而，VOx(五和六族过渡金属氧化物)上随着烷烃转化率的增加，丙烯选择性降低的挑战依然存在。基于NiOx的催化剂在烷烃氧化脱氢方面显示出前景，有迹象表明Ni中心直接参与CH活化步骤。设计高效的NiOx基ODH催化剂的合理方法首先应确定与CH活化相关的兼容表面氧物种和氢物种(质子、氢化物或氢原子)，然后创建一个固体基质，当暴露于分子氧时，可以选择性地产生这些物种。似乎NiOLiCl/SZ中乙烷的CH与活性氧物种之间存在一定程度的兼容性。表3中的条目37显示了相似的丙烯产量，可能是因为活性氧物种在反应过程中在催化剂上产生。丙烷转化率和丙烯选择性的差异可能是由于催化剂表面积和空间速度的差异。VOx相的性质对VOx基催化剂的性能至关重要。VOx相中，VOx的氧配位体通过非共价力与催化剂支撑物结合，对高烯烃选择性至关重要。NiOx(NiOLiCl/SZ)、Li掺杂MgO和卤化物催化剂(MgDyLiCl、CeO2/2CeF3等)的分析表明，存在电荷和亲核性CH活化机制。电荷性CH活化发生在NiOLiCl/SZ催化剂中电子不足的Ni中心，而亲核性CH活化通过Mg-Dy-Li-Cl和CeO2/2CeF3中的[OX(其中X=Cl，F)]中心发生。因此，异相催化剂上的CH活化可以从电荷性到两性再到亲核性对底物的攻击，这取决于金属中心和配位体表面氧物种。这种连续体在均相催化剂系统中CH活化中已被识别。来自均相催化剂系统的见解可以为高效异相烷烃脱氢催化剂的探索提供新的视角。sMMO和pMMO酶在非常温和的条件下已知能活化CH键。Fe-ZSM-5和Cu-ZSM-5被指含有模仿这些酶活性位点的位点。Fe-ZSM-5和Cu-ZSM-5中的酶模拟位点可能为Rotenberg及其同事报告的CuAl催化剂的性能提供见解。很明显，探索在固体框架中创建酶和均相催化剂的活性位点模仿体，是朝着异相催化剂上高效CH活化和烷烃脱氢的有希望的方向。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
