<quotes>
[1] "A number of factors including the high-energy demands of these processes, their low selectivity toward the production of particular olefins, dwindling petroleum reserves, and rising oil prices are driving the petrochemical industry to search for a more economical feedstock and more efficient conversion technologies."
[2] "Consequently, the recent boom in shale gas production has turned the United States into the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, as illustrated by the 126 investment projects totaling 84 billion dollars made up to September 2013 that have been tallied by the American Chemistry Council."
[3] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[4] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices. This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
[5] "As of April 2012, 5 million tons of propylene was being produced by the 14 propane dehydrogenation plants around the globe."
[6] "Moreover, during the initial stages of the dehydrogenation reaction, highly oxidized, and thus catalytically inactive, chromium species are being reduced to active chromium species with lower oxidation states."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The primary challenges in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production include the high-energy demands of the process, low selectivity towards producing specific olefins, diminishing petroleum reserves, and escalating oil prices. These factors motivate the petrochemical industry to seek more economical feedstocks and more efficient conversion technologies. The recent surge in shale gas production has transformed the United States into a low-cost chemical producer, attracting significant investments. The profitability of PDH is significantly influenced by the price disparity between propane and propylene, benefiting from favorable market conditions. The growing demand from the automotive sector, coupled with reduced supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has led to increased butadiene prices and spurred investments in new butane dehydrogenation installations across the United States, China, and Japan. As of April 2012, 5 million tons of propylene were produced globally through 14 propane dehydrogenation plants. During the reaction initiation, high-oxidation state chromium species, which are inactive catalysts, are reduced to lower oxidation state species with catalytic activity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在丙烷脱氢（PDH）用于工业丙烯生产的过程中，主要挑战包括过程的高能需求、生产特定烯烃的低选择性、石油储备的减少和油价的上涨。这些因素促使石油化工行业寻找更经济的原料和更高效的转化技术。近年来，页岩气产量的激增使美国成为中东以外最低成本的化工生产国，吸引了大量投资。PDH的盈利能力很大程度上取决于丙烷与丙烯的价格差异，当前市场条件非常有利。汽车行业的增长需求，加上裂解成本高昂导致供应减少，导致丁二烯价格急剧上涨，并刺激了美国、中国和日本新建丁烷脱氢装置的投资。截至2012年4月，全球14家丙烷脱氢工厂共生产了500万吨丙烯。在反应初期，高氧化状态的铬物种，活性较低，被还原为具有催化活性的较低氧化状态物种。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
