<quotes>
[1] "The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn."
[2] "Indeed, the profitability of propane dehydrogenation is determined to a large extent by the price difference between propane and propylene, which makes the current market conditions very favorable."
[3] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[4] "There is a similarly advantageous market situation for the dehydrogenation of butanes, because the same conditions apply."
[5] "For example, in 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced."
[6] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
[7] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[8] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[9] "To date, five main industrial processes for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes have been patented, two of which are currently being used to produce light olefins."
[10] "Literally dozens of new facilities will be built in China or the United States and will use either the Catofin (Lummus) or the Oleflex (UOP) technologies."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The primary challenges and opportunities in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for industrial propylene production revolve around achieving high-temperature stability, maintaining high propylene selectivity, and resisting side reactions. Researchers are addressing these needs by developing catalysts that can withstand high temperatures without degrading too quickly, by enhancing the selectivity towards propylene over other olefins, and by minimizing the occurrence of unwanted side reactions like cracking and hydrogenolysis. Thermodynamic limitations, which necessitate higher reaction temperatures and/or lower paraffin partial pressures for achieving high conversions, are also being tackled by employing strategies such as diluting the paraffin feed with steam or using selective hydrogen combustion to shift the equilibrium towards olefin formation. The opportunity lies in the growing demand for propylene, driven by its use in various industries, especially the automotive sector, and the shift towards using cheaper natural gas liquids, like ethane, as feedstock for steam cracking processes. This shift is enabling the construction of new PDH facilities in regions like the United States and China, which will employ advanced technologies such as Catofin or Oleflex to produce propylene more efficiently and sustainably.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在丙烷脱氢（PDH）工业丙烯生产中，主要挑战和机遇集中在实现高温稳定性、保持高丙烯选择性以及抵抗副反应。研究人员通过开发能在高温下不易降解的催化剂、增强丙烯的选择性以减少其他烯烃的生成，并通过抑制裂解和氢化等不希望发生的副反应来应对这些需求。热力学限制，需要更高的反应温度和/或更低的烷烃分压以实现高转化率，也通过采用稀释烷烃进料蒸汽或使用选择性氢燃烧来改变平衡，使其有利于烯烃形成的方式进行解决。机会在于对丙烯的不断增长的需求，这是由其在汽车等行业的应用推动的，以及转向更便宜的天然气液体，如乙烷，作为蒸汽裂解过程的原料。这种转变使美国和中国等地能够建设新的PDH设施，这些设施将采用先进的技术，如Catofin或Oleflex，更高效和可持续地生产丙烯。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
