<quotes>
[1] "The exchange reactions of benzene, toluene, and m-xylene with deuterium have been studied on two silica-alumina catalysts containing 13% (I) or 45% (II) alumina and on pure alumina."
[2] "On any catalyst, the hydrogen atoms in the ring positions of all three hydrocarbons reacted at the same rate and there were no appreciable directing effects due to the side-groups."
[3] "Rates of reaction were substantially lower on silica-alumina I than on the other catalysts."
[4] "Side-group exchange with toluene or m-xylene was slower than ring exchange by factors ranging from 30 upwards."
[5] "Subsidiary experiments on hydrogen-deuterium exchange and on the isomerization of m-xylene were also carried out."
[6] "Silica-alumina I was the least active for hydrogen-deuterium exchange and isomerized m-xylene at rates comparable with those found for side-group exchange."
[7] "The exchange between hydrogen and deuterium takes place readily at low temperatures and consequently there is no difficulty about 'activating' the hydrogen molecules for this particular exchange."
[8] "The rate of exchange of CD2 with hydrogen is close to the common rate that we find for the exchange of the ring hydrogen atoms in the three aromatic molecules."
[9] "The surface hydroxyl groups on the catalyst exchange with deuterium much more slowly than the rate of the hydrogen-deuterium reaction."
[10] "When CD2 is used as the source of deuterium atoms only a fraction of the surface hydroxyl groups exchange rapidly at 135° which is a much higher temperature than that required for the exchange of methane with deuterium or for the equilibration of CH4 and CD2."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Analyzing the comprehensive mechanism of alkane metathesis catalyzed by silica-supported tantalum hydrides involves understanding both two-site and one-site schemes, the processes involved in linear and cyclic alkane transformations, the formation and role of key intermediates (such as alkenes and metallacyclobutanes), and how these factors contribute to reaction selectivity and catalyst performance in various alkane conversions.

The exchange reactions of benzene, toluene, and m-xylene with deuterium were studied on silica-alumina catalysts containing 13% or 45% alumina and on pure alumina. The hydrogen atoms in the ring positions of all three hydrocarbons reacted at the same rate across all catalysts, indicating no significant directing effects due to the side-groups. Rates of reaction were significantly lower on silica-alumina I than on the other catalysts. Side-group exchange was notably slower than ring exchange, with factors ranging from 30 times slower. Subsequent experiments on hydrogen-deuterium exchange and the isomerization of m-xylene were conducted. Silica-alumina I was found to be the least active for hydrogen-deuterium exchange and isomerized m-xylene at rates equivalent to those observed for side-group exchange. The exchange between hydrogen and deuterium occurs readily at low temperatures, facilitating the activation of hydrogen molecules for this specific exchange. The rate of exchange of CD2 with hydrogen is comparable to the common rate for the exchange of ring hydrogen atoms in the three aromatic molecules. Surface hydroxyl groups on the catalyst exchange with deuterium much more slowly than the hydrogen-deuterium reaction, requiring temperatures of 50-100°C or even higher for replacement. When CD2 serves as the source of deuterium atoms, only a fraction of the surface hydroxyl groups exchange rapidly at 135°C, significantly higher than the temperatures needed for methane exchange or equilibration of CH4 and CD2.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
催化硅基钽氢化物对烷烃裂合机制的全面分析涉及理解两种位点和单一位点方案，线性与环状烷烃转换过程中涉及的过程，关键中间体（如烯烃和金属环丁烷）的形成及其在各种烷烃转化中的作用，以及这些因素如何促进反应选择性和催化剂性能。

苯、甲苯和间二甲苯与氘的交换反应在含13%或45%氧化铝的硅基氧化铝催化剂和纯氧化铝上进行了研究。所有三个碳氢化合物的环位置氢原子在所有催化剂中以相同速率反应，表明不存在由于侧基导致的显著定向效应。在二氧化硅-氧化铝I上的反应速率明显低于其他催化剂。侧基交换比环交换慢得多，比率范围从30倍以上。随后进行了氢氘交换和间二甲苯异构化的实验。二氧化硅-氧化铝I作为氢氘交换最不活跃的催化剂，其对间二甲苯的异构化速率与侧基交换相当。氢和氘之间的交换在低温下易于发生，有助于激活氢分子进行这种特定的交换。CD2与氢的交换率接近三种芳香分子环氢原子交换的常见速率。催化剂表面羟基与氘的交换远比氢氘反应缓慢，在50-100°C甚至更高的温度下才可完成替换。当CD2作为氘源时，仅有一部分表面羟基在135°C快速交换，该温度远高于甲烷交换或CH4和CD2平衡所需的温度。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
