World Patent Information, Vol. 14. No. 1, p. 52, 1992. 
Pergamon Press plc 
Printed in Great Britain 
Literature 
Review 
Abstracts and reviews collected by the 
International Bureau of WIPO during a 
scanning of journals concerned with infor- 
mation retrieval and patent information. 
1. 
Inhouse-patent databases for medium- 
sized firms. R. Schmidt, B. Schein and 
A. Klas. Inf. Tech. -- 1T (Germany), 
Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 276-282, Oct. 1991. 
The use of databases in small or medium- 
sized firms is far below the possibilities 
offered by technology. The access to 
databases comprising patent information 
appears to be quite complex. The paper 
explains how users can access patent 
databases with economically-priced soft- 
ware on their own. After a short market 
survey the requirements of inhouse patent 
databases are shown by an example of 
the program "Patent/iberwachung" which 
was specially designed for this purpose. 
The presentation of the range of appli- 
cations is followed by a summary and a 
checklist for the hardware required and 
the corresponding costs. 
2. 
Online statistics in patent databases 
for small and medium-sized enterprises. 
K. Koschatzky. Inf. Tech. -- IT (Ger- 
many), Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 263-268, Oct. 
1991. Online statistics in patent databases 
offer the possibility to use patent data as a 
source for technical and market informa- 
tion. By this it also contributes to a decline 
in the information gap small and medium- 
sized enterprises face compared to big 
companies which have their own patent 
department. Differences in the capacity 
of statistical commands make it necessary 
to discuss advantages and disadvantages 
of the statistical procedures of different 
hosts. Based on own experiences, the 
Fraunhofer Institute for Systems and 
Innovation Research (ISI), Karlsruhe, 
has developed a standardized analytical 
package named "Patent-Statistical Com- 
petition Analysis". Using online statistics, 
a deep insight into development trends in 
certain technology markets becomes poss- 
ible. Additionally, lists of competitors can 
be produced and the competitiveness on 
representative markets can be analysed. 
Patent databases should therefore not 
only be used for legal patent searches, 
but also as a source for technical and mar- 
keting information. By adjusting the file 
structures according to the needs of online 
statistics, the database producers could 
also contribute to higher acceptability and 
diffusion in the utilization of technical and 
market related patent data. 
3. 
Critical comparison of patent data- 
bases. H. Krestel. Inf. 
Tech. 
-- 
IT 
(Germany), Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 236-244, 
Oct. 1991. Patent information has devel- 
oped to an instrument of management 
and business in the last few years. 
Online patent databases allow searchers 
to obtain patent information in a quick 
and easy way. Different hosts offer a 
~ 
reat variety of patent databases for all 
inds of questions and purposes. All 
successful searching in patent databases 
requires intensive knowledge of database 
contents and structures, their advantages 
and failures. The article describes the 
most important patent databases for 
German users as there are PATDPA, 
PATOS, INPADOC, WPI/WPIL, EPAT 
and EDOC. The author discusses whether 
conventional searching in the original full 
document can be replaced by online 
searching in patent databases. 
4. 
Specialities of patent information. H. 
Weigand. Inf. Tech. -- IT (Germany), 
Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 230-235, Oct. 1991. 
In the Federal Republic of Germany there 
are about 50-60 billion DM invested in 
research and development annually. A 
part of this amount is lost through 
unnecessary double developments. The 
number of technical articles, congress 
reports, dissertations, patents and also 
publications doubles about every five 
years. The analysis of document develop- 
ment in the patent field must, therefore, 
be supported. 
This can be covered 
through the users of EDP (Electronic 
Data Processing) and research done in 
databases. 
5. 
Outlook for computerized patent in- 
formation. G. Giroud. Inf. Tech. --IT 
(Germany), Vol. 33, No. 5, pp. 288-292, 
Oct. 1991. Cooperation between the na- 
tional patent offices of the member states 
of the European Patent Organisation 
and the European Patent Office in the 
field of patent information is giving 
Europe a range of options unmatched 
in either Japan or the USA. Various 
projects for further computerisation of 
the EPO's publication systems will create 
new information media over the next 
four to five years. National Patent Of- 
rices, non-commercial libraries and patent 
reading rooms will play a central role 
in disseminating patent information to 
the public and industry, the aim being 
to increase awareness and utilization of 
this information, particularly in small and 
medium-sized firms. The projects will ex- 
pand and refine existing databases, as well 
as creating new ones. To stem the flood of 
paper, patent information is supplied and 
disseminated primarily in electronic form, 
whether in EPOQUE's online databases 
or in ESPACE CD-ROMs. These two 
media are not competitors; rather they 
complement and enhance each other. 
6. 
BeyondCOMPENDEX*PLUS:Asur- 
vey of selected core engineering compact 
disc databases. J. Powell. CD-ROM 
Prof. 
(USA), Vol. 4, No. 5, pp. 55-68, Sept. 
1991. COMPENDEX*PLUS is frequent- 
ly the primary compact disc database that 
is used in engineering library collections 
and covers literature representative from 
virtually all fields of engineering. Scholars 
in the fields of mechanical, structural and 
civil engineering are well supported by 
COMPENDEX*PLUS. However, there 
are other databases which are far better 
at providing information for researchers 
in some other engineering fields, namely 
electrical, automotive, aerospace, chemi- 
cal and environmental engineering, com- 
puter science and materials science. There 
are still other databases that should not 
be overlooked by the earlier-mentioned 
fields of mechanical, structural and civil 
engineering. The following titles are re- 
viewed: COMPENDEX*PLUS, INSPEC 
ONDISC, Applied Science and Tech- 
nology Index, Science Citation Index Com- 
pact Disc Edition, Dialog Ondisc: NTIS, 
Dialog Ondisc: Aerospace Database, Dia- 
log Ondisc: Metadex Collection: Metals, 
polymers, ceramics, CITIS CD-ROM- 
SAFE, CITIS CD-ROM-ICEA, Patents: 
CASSIS/CD-ROM or Automated Pa- 
tent Searching on CD-ROM, Arctic and 
Antarctic regions (AAR) NISC, Water 
Resources Abstracts, (NICS). 
7. 
The outline of patent databases in 
STN. I. PATDPA, PATGRAPH. I. Yoshi- 
kawa. 
Joho 
Kanri 
(Japan), 
Vol. 34, 
No. 4, pp. 323-340, July 1991. The paper 
describes German patent databases on 
STN, PATDPA and PATGRAPH. EP 
and PCT applications with Germany as 
the designation country are recorded 
in PATDPA. PATDPA contains about 
1.90 million patents from 1968 to date. 
It enables one to search data on how a 
patent examination is progressing from 
application to patent registration. It also 
enables one to search patent and technical 
literature referred to. PATDPA search 
is available in German because all the 
records contained are in German. 
8. 
The outline of patent databases in 
STN. 3. CA, REGISTRY, other CAS files 
and APIPAT. I. Yoshikawa. Joho Kanri 
(Japan), Vol. 34, No. 6, pp. 525-548, 
Sept, 1991, 13 ref. For pt. 2 see ibid., 
Vol. 34, No. 5 (1991). An outline is 
given of patent databases on STN: CA, 
REGISTRY, CAPREVIEWS, CAOLD, 
MARPAT and APIPAT. The CAS files 
group are constructed and serviced by 
Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), the 
suborganization of the American Chemi- 
cal Society. CA contains about 9.7 
million records of literatures and REG- 
ISTRY contains about 11 million records 
of chemical substances. CAPREVIEWS 
contains the most recent 15 weeks data 
before they are recorded on CA. CAOLD 
contains literatures data recorded on 
CA before 1967. MARPAT contains 
patent records expressed by MARKUSH 
type structure from 1988. APIPAT are 
constructed and serviced by American 
Petroleum Institute (API). This file stores 
about 200 thousand patents on petroleum 
industry and petrochemical industry. The 
APIPAT is a limited-access file. 
52 ¸ 
