ADVANCES IN CATALYSIS. VOLUME 38 
Mi 
Applications of Adsorption 
crocalorimetry to the Study 
Heterogeneous Catalysis 
of 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ 
Chemical Engineering Department 
University of Puerto Rico 
Mayagiie:. Puerto Rico 00681 
AND 
J. A. DUMESIC 
Department of Chemical Engineering 
University of Wisconsin 
Madison. Wisconsin 53706 
1. 
Introduction 
Heterogeneous catalysis involves specific chemical interactions between 
the surface of a solid and the reacting gas (or liquid phase) molecules. The 
catalytic cycle is generally composed of adsorption steps, surface reaction 
processes, and desorption steps. The energetics of these surface chemical 
events play an important role in determining the catalytic properties of the 
surface. Thus, study of the adsorption of probe and reactive gas molecules 
onto surfaces is of primary importance in catalysis. Such studies lead to an 
understanding of the nature o
f
 gas-solid interactions and give insight into 
the properties of the adsorbent surface. 
The heat evolved when a reactive molecule 
contacts the surface of the solid 
is related to the energy of the bonds formed between the adsorbed species 
and the adsorbent and hence to the nature of the bonds and to the chemical 
reactivity of the surface. Although diverse techniques have been used to 
study this interaction, only a few provide information about the strength of 
chemisorption 
itself. 
The measurement of the heat of adsorption by a suitable 
microcalorimeter 
is the most reliable method for this purpose. The key to the 
149 
Copyright 11' 1992 by Academic Press, Inc. 
All rights of 
reproduction i
n
 any form reserved. 
150 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
effective utilization of microcalorimetry in heterogeneous catalysis is the 
judicious choice of gas-phase molecules for study. Reactants and products of 
the catalytic reaction can be employed if adsorption of these gases leads to 
well-defined 
adsorbed species. In other cases, probe molecules 
are selected for 
study that form adsorbed species believed to be related to important inter- 
mediates in the catalytic cycle. 
The main objective of this article is to present a survey of theoretical and 
applied aspects of microcalorimetry to heterogeneous catalysis with par- 
ticular emphasis on the determination of acid-base properties of metal oxides 
and mixed metal oxides. This review is not meant to be comprehensive 
but to 
provide an overview of recent work done in the area. Additional applications 
can be found in recent reviews (Z-4). 
II. Theoretical Background 
A .  THERMODYNAMICS 
OF ADSORPTION 
The surface of a condensed phase (solid or liquid) is usually coordinately 
unsaturated, and this generally 
leads to adsorption of chemical 
species 
coming 
into contact with it. This process produces an enrichment in concentration of 
the adsorbed substance compared to its concentration in the adjoining bulk 
phases. The material capable of being adsorbed is usually called the adsorp- 
tive, while the material in the adsorbed state is called the adsorbate. In cases 
of chemisorption, adsorptive and adsorbate may be chemically different 
species (e.g., in dissociative adsorption). When adsorption occurs at the inter- 
face between a fluid phase and a solid, 
the solid is usually called the adsorbent. 
Adsorption is a spontaneous process, resulting in a decrease in Gibbs free 
energy (A,G < 0). Moreover, because the adsorbate is usually more ordered 
than the adsorptive, there is usually a decrease in entropy. It follows from the 
relationship 
(1) 
that adsorption is generally an exothermic process (A,H -= 0), and the heat 
evolved during the process is the heat of adsorption. Any physical inter- 
pretation of experimentally determined values of the heat of adsorption is 
based on the thermodynamic definition of heat. As the heat is not a state 
function, 
it depends on the experimental 
conditions as well as the methods of 
measurement. Therefore, one must carefully define different heats of adsorp- 
tion, as shown later. The aim of this section is to present the definitions used 
to describe the adsorption process with special emphasis on the thermo- 
dynamic definitions. Many authors have shown that adsorption systems can 
be described by an extension of ordinary solution thermodynamics (4-11), 
AaG = A,H - 
TA,S 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
151 
and that is the approach used here. The mathematical development that 
follows considers a one-component adsorptive and a one-component adsor- 
bent throughout for simplicity. 
The IUPAC symbols and terminology (6) 
have 
been adopted with slight modifications. The following list summarizes the 
nomenclature used. 
Thermodynamic quantities 
X 
X 
- 
X 
n 
m 
V 
P 
T 
R 
CP 
As 
Q 
t 
4 
U 
H 
S 
G 
Y 
extensive quantity (uppercase, except for n) 
mean molar quantity = - 
(lowercase) 
X 
n 
{
E
}
 
differential quantity = 
moles 
mass of adsorbent 
volume 
pressure 
absolute temperature 
molar ideal gas constant 
mean molar heat capacity 
area of surface or interface 
thickness of interfacial layer 
heat (extensive) 
heat per mole of adsorbate 
internal energy 
enthalpy 
entropy 
Gibbs free energy 
surface tension 
Superscripts 
d 
exP 
int 
f
3
 
f
7
 
S 
sol 
th 
0 
differential quantities 
experimentally measured quantities 
integral quantities 
quantities referring to the gas phase 
quantities referring to the Gibbs surface 
quantities referring to the interfacial layer 
quantities referring to the adsorbent 
isothermal quantities 
quantities referring to the standard state 
Subscripts 
a refers to an adsorption phenomenon (e.g., A,H is an enthalpy of 
adsorption) 
152 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESlC 
CE 
Gibbs Surface = 
surface of the solid 
Solid Phase 
FIG. 
1. Schematic representation of the adsorption process, showing the concentration 
profile (C) 
as a function of distance 
(2) normal to the surface. Solid line: in the real system; 
dashed 
line: 
in the reference system; 
dot-dash line: 
boundaries of the interfacial layer. 
The excess amount 
of adsorbed substance per unit area is given by the sum of the areas of the two shaded portions. 
(Adapted from Ref. 6.) 
The adsorption process has usually been described in terms of two geo- 
metric models. The first model makes use of the concept of Gibbs dividing 
surface. This is a surface chosen parallel to the interface and used to define 
the volumes of the bulk phases so that the extent of adsorption and other 
surface excess properties can be calculated. The position of the Gibbs surface 
is often defined experimentally as that surface which encloses the volume of 
space from which the solid excludes helium. Both the gas phase and the solid 
are assumed to be homogeneous up to this surface where a strictly two- 
dimensional adsorption occurs. The volume of this phase is zero by definition. 
With this model all the thermodynamic quantities of the adsorbate are 
referred to as surface excess amounts. For example, the surface excess amount 
of adsorbed substance (Gibbs adsorption) is the excess of the amount of 
substance present in the interfacial layer over that which would be present at 
the same equilibrium gas pressure in a reference system of the same volume 
in which the gas-phase concentration is constant up to the Gibbs surface and 
zero beyond the Gibbs surface in the surface layer of the solid (ie., 
in the case 
where there was no adsorption). Figure 1 shows a schematic representation 
of the adsorption process. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
153 
The second model assumes an interfacial layer of finite and constant thick- 
ness T, so that Vs 
= 
zA, is the volume of the interfacial layer, which has to be 
defined on the basis of some appropriate model of gas adsorption. For most 
practical purposes the two models are equivalent. The first model is easier to 
apply, but most of the authors in the early development of statistical 
mechanical theories of adsorption have expressed the problem in terms of an 
interfacial layer. For completeness, the appropriate definitions are given in 
relation to both formulations. 
1. 
Excess Properties Defined Relative to a Gibbs Surface 
In general, any extensive thermodynamic quantity X may be written as 
the sum of the contributions from the adsorbent, the adsorbate, and the 
adsorptive: 
x 
= xso' 
+ xu 
+ xg 
The surface excess internal energy (V") 
is defined as the difference between 
the total internal energy of the system and the internal energies of the solid 
and gas phase: 
(2) 
where VsOl 
+ V g  
= V is the total volume of the system, VS0l 
the volume of the 
solid, and VB 
the volume of the gas phase; (usoI/uso') 
and (uB/ug) 
are the energy 
densities in the two bulk phases, us'' and ug 
are the mean molar energies, and 
vsol and u g  are the mean molar volumes of the two phases. 
The surface excess entropy (S") 
is defined in an equivalent fashion: 
where (ssol/usoI) 
and (sB/uB) 
are the entropy densities in the two bulk phases 
and ssol 
and sg are the mean molar entropies. The surface excess enthalpy is 
defined as the difference of the surface excess internal energy and the surface 
tension times the surface area: 
H" = U" -?As 
( 5 )  
When the thermodynamics of surfaces are discussed in terms of excess quan- 
tities relative to a Gibbs surface, there is only one way of defining the excess 
enthalpy, that is, these quantities depend on (y, A,) but not on ( p ,  
V") 
because 
V" = 0. 
154 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
2. 
The definitions in terms of an interfacial layer are useful only when Vs 
can 
be assessed unequivocally on the basis of a physical model of the interfacial 
layer or when it can be taken as negligibly small. For this model the inter- 
facial energy is defined as before but including a contribution to the total 
volume from the adsorbate: 
Properties of an Interfacial Layer 
v = vsO' 
+ v* 
+ vs 
The interfacial entropy (Ss) 
is defined as in Eq. (4) but substituting D by s as 
superscript. 
The properties of interfacial layers depend on both ( p ,  
Vs) 
and (y, A,), for 
example, H s  = 
f 
( p ,  
V', y, A,) In defining an enthalpy in terms of the corre- 
sponding energy either -pVs, yA, or -(pVs - 
?A,) may be subtracted from 
the energy function. Therefore, there are three possible definitions of inter- 
facial enthalpy: 
(7) 
(8) 
(9) 
HS 
= us 
+ pvs 
J?' = U s  
- 
yA, 
f i s  = us 
+ pvs 
- 
yA, 
Of these definitions the most commonly used is that given by Eq. (7). 
3. Definitions o
f
 Heats of Adsorption 
Different types of heats of adsorption can be defined based on the variables 
which are kept constant during the experiment (ye, 
V , p ,  
A,, etc.). Here we 
shall discuss three such heats. The first heat is usually called the differential 
heat of adsorption (qd), 
although it is, in fact, defined as a change in internal 
energy; the second is the isosteric enthalpy of adsorption (q"), 
formerly called 
isosteric heat of adsorption; and the third is the isothermal heat of adsorp- 
tion (qth). We shall develop expressions that allow these heats to be deter- 
mined from experimental calorimetric data and show how these quantities 
are interrelated. 
A basic assumption in the classic thermodynamic treatment of adsorption 
is that the solid is both rigid and inert, that is, no change of surface area and 
no changes in the thermodynamic properties of the adsorbent are allowed. 
This means that by convention any perturbation of the system due to adsorp- 
tion is attributed only to changes 
in the thermodynamic 
state of the adsorbate 
and to the adsorptive. Therefore, during an infinitesimal adsorption process 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
155 
at constant V and T, 
we assume that 
dX = 
dX" + d X g ,  
since dXso' = 
0 
(10) 
However, it should be remembered that the measured changes include con- 
tributions from the perturbation of the adsorbent. We shall use mass as 
the extensive variable for the adsorbent because the area may change on 
adsorption. 
When the addition of an infinitesimal amount dn" or dns is carried out at 
'constant gas volume and constant temperature, the differential molar energy 
of adsorption Anti" or A,Us is defined as 
A,C" = 
U" - 
~
8
,
 
or 
Anus 
= Us 
- 
u8 
(1 1) 
where the differential molar surface excess energy, U", is given by 
and the differential molar interfacial energy, Us, 
by 
ug 
is the molar energy of the gas, and rn is the mass of the adsorbent. 
The differential molar energy of adsorption can be measured by means of 
a closed isothermal calorimeter. This system consists of two compartments 
contained in a closed isothermal calorimeter. Initially one compartment is 
evacuated and contains a given amount of adsorbent but no adsorbate, 
and the other compartment contains n moles of gas at pressure p. The two 
compartments are then connected physically until the pressure equilibrates. 
By definition, the integral heat of adsorption is defined as the amount of 
heat evolved by the system when nu or ns are adsorbed at constant tempera- 
ture and volume. Thus, since no volume work is done, the integral heat is 
obtained in accordance with the first law of thermodynamics as 
the final minus 
the initial internal energy of the system: 
UfinaI - 
Uinitial = - g i n 1  = 
(
,
,
 - 
nu)ug + 
,,bun - 
 nu^ 
or 
-Qint 
= 
n"(u" - 
~
8
)
 
(14) 
By convention Qint 
is positive. The molar integral heat of adsorption is defined 
as the molar change in internal energy during the adsorption process (A,u") 
(15) 
- 
(u" 
- 
u
'
)
 = A,u" 
-$nt 
= -- 
Qint - 
nu 
156 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
The differential heat of adsorption is related to the integral heat and to the 
differential molar energy of adsorption according to 
The experiment described before can be repeated with different initial 
pressures so that Qin' 
can be measured as a function of the amount adsorbed. 
By calculating the slope of the plot of Qin' versus the amount adsorbed at 
various coverages, qd can be determined as a function of coverage. 
If the adsorption process is carried out instead at constant pressure p and 
temperature, for example, by having a frictionless piston in the calorimeter, 
the differential molar enthalpy of adsorption A,$" or A,,$', also called the 
isosteric enthalpy of adsorption, is defined as 
where 7;' = 
(aHs/anS)T,p,m, 
and hg is the gas molar enthalpy. The isosteric 
enthalpy of adsorption can easily be determined from equilibrium adsorption 
data using the Clausius- Clapeyron equation. 
The difference between the differential molar energy (AJ") 
and differential 
molar enthalpy (A,h") is the pressure times the molar volume of the gas phase, 
which equals R T  
for an ideal gas, 
(19) 
The same relation applies to the difference between A,U* and A,$' when us 
is negligibly small compared with ug. 
Let us now consider the most common situation in adsorption calorimetry: 
a gas-solid open system in which adsorption is brought about by continous 
or stepwise admission o
f
 the adsorptive at constant temperature but not 
necessarily at the same temperature as the calorimeter. Initially the system 
contains 
n = nso' + nu 
+ 
n g  
(20) 
A,ii" - 
AJ" = 
(ii" - 
up) - 
(ii" - 
hs) = 
pug 
RT 
moles and the total energy is 
u = usO' 
+ U" + u
g
 
During thz addition of an infinitesimal amount of adsorptive, dn, the system 
exchanges heat (SQcXp) 
in such a way that a differential energy balance gives 
(22) 
dU = 
hg*i"dn 
- 
BQeXP 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
157 
dn = 
dn" + 
dng 
(23) 
dU = 
dU" + d U g  
= nudub + 
u"dn" + ngdug 
+ ugdng 
(24) 
where Pin 
is the molar enthalpy of the gas coming in and Qexp is the measured 
heat. 
If the small increase in pressure does not change the internal energy of the 
gas (ie., the gas behaves ideally under the conditions), then dug 
= 0. Thus, 
combining Eqs. (15) and (22)-(24), simplifying, and normalizing by dividing 
by dn" one obtains 
Note that from Eqs. (15) and (16) 
and from Eq. (20) 
{g.}T,m 
= 1 + {g} 
T. 
m 
adding and subtracting pVg 
to the right-hand side of Eq. (25) one obtains 
with Eq. (19) 
The last term can be calculated from the adsorption isotherm using the 
appropriate 
equation of state for the gas used. But for a calorimeter with two 
identical cells connected differentially, one of them containing the sample, this 
term will be exactly compensated as shown below. 
Consider the same system as before but this time without an adsorbent. The 
energy balance gives 
(29) 
Again, we can normalize by dividing by dn" (the amount adsorbed in the 
original cell, not zero) and adding Eq. (29) to the original Eq. (28) to get 
SQ' = 
(hg-'" 
' - 
ug )d 
n 
Renaming Qexp - 
Q' as Qexp we prove that indeed the last term of Eq. (28) 
is 
exactly compensated, provided that dng 
is the same in both cells. 
158 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
Therefore, under these conditions the measured heat in a differential calori- 
meter is in fact a differential molar enthalpy of adsorption with a correction 
that corresponds to the difference in molar enthalpy of the gas coming in and 
the gas inside the calorimeter. Moreover, if we assume that the gas behaves 
ideally, then Eq. (30) 
simplifies to 
We see from Eq. (31) that the closer the temperature of the incoming gas is 
to the calorimeter temperature, the smaller the correction, and if the tempera- 
tures are identical we have 
the so-called isothermal heat of adsorption. 
4. Dejnitions o
f
 Entropies o
f
 Adsorption 
In the previous section it was shown that the term heat o
f
 adsorption may 
represent different functions, depending on the experimental conditions under 
which it is determined. The situation is analogous with the entropy o
f
 adsorp- 
tion which can also be defined in several ways ( 2 2 ) .  It is always necessary to 
specify whether the function considered is a true differential, a derivative, or 
an integral entropy, and also whether it refers to an equilibrium state (defined 
by p and T) or to a standard state (defined by p o  and T). Moreover, various 
entropies of adsorption may be defined by choosing different standard states 
for the adsorptive (this state may be gaseous, but also liquid or solid). In this 
section, all the thermodynamic quantities of the adsorbate will be defined 
relative to a Gibbs surface for simplicity, but defining them in terms of an 
interfacial layer yields the same results. 
The molar integral entropy of adsorption may be defined as 
A,s" = 
S" - 
S' 
(33) 
where so 
is the mean integral entropy of an adsorbed mole of molecules, a 
quantity taken over the entire amount adsorbed and characteristic of a given 
state of equilibrium of the system (state defined by p and T), and s8 is the 
molar entropy of the same substance in the gas phase (assumed ideal) and 
under the same p and T conditions. 
The standard integral molar entropy of adsorption is defined as 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
159 
where the entropy of the adsorbate is now compared with the entropy, Po, 
of the same substance in the gas phase (assumed ideal) and at the same 
temperature but at standard pressure. The derivative of the standard integral 
molar entropy of adsorption, expressed by 
is called the standard derivative entropy of adsorption. This derivative 
function may be obtained from the derivative entropy of adsorption 
AaSa 
= 
Fa - 
SB 
(36) 
through the relationship 
(37) 
AaSa*O 
= 
Fa - 
SB - 
Rln, P 
P 
It is easy to show that at equilibrium we have 
p = 
p a  
and Eq. (37) becomes 
Therefore, the importance of the derivative entropy of adsorption is that 
it is easily assessed experimentally from the differential enthalpy of adsorp- 
tion. However, we should note that it is not a proper differential, since 
and thus from Eq. (36) 
Thus, AaSa is the derivative of naAasn 
only when the adsorption takes place 
at constant pressure (and temperature). 
Adsorption entropies may be determined from calorimetric experiments 
provided that care is taken to ensure reversibility of the heat exchange. 
160 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
Rouqutrol and co-workers have recently described the experimental deter- 
mination of entropies of adsorption using isothermal adsorption micro- 
calorimetry by a slow and constant introduction of adsorbate under quasi- 
equilibrium conditions (11) 
or by discontinuous introduction of the adsor- 
bate in an open system (12). 
The adsorption system considered is open and exchanges heat and matter 
with the surroundings. Under these conditions, during the introduction of an 
infinitesimal amount of adsorptive, dn (taken at temperature T and pressure 
p), using the second law of thermodynamics, the entropy change of the system 
may be written as 
where 8
Q
;
:
V
p
 is the amount of heat experimentally measured under reversible 
or quasi-reversible conditions. 
Using Eq. (10) 
one obtains 
dS = 
dS" + dSg = n"ds" + sadnu 
+ ngdsg 
+ sgdng 
(42) 
From Eqs. (23), 
(41), 
and (42) 
one finds that 
- 
(s" - 
sg)dn" + n"ds" + ngdsg 
8Qexp 
T 
(43) 
By adding and subtracting n"dsg to the right-hand side of Eq. (43) this 
expression can be rewritten as 
- 
d[na(sa - 
sg)] + 
(nu + ng)dsg 
(44) 
8Qexp 
T 
Using the relation for the molar entropy of an ideal gas at constant 
temperature 
P 
dsg = -RdIn-, 
P 
one writes 
P 
8Qexp - 
d[na(sa - 
sg)] - 
R(na + ng)d 
In, 
T 
P 
Equation (46) 
may be integrated from 0 to nu to give 
(45) 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
161 
VB 
T 
The last term in Eq. (47) can be simplified to - p ,  
and the final expression 
for the molar integral entropy of adsorption in terms of experimentally 
determined calorimetric and volumetric isotherms data is 
The computation of the integral molar entropy of adsorption at any 
coverage requires knowledge of the adsorption isotherm n" = n"(p) 
at a given 
temperature combined with the calorimetric isotherm Qexp 
= 
Qexp( 
p). We 
must emphasize the fact that Qexp 
is measured by definition under reversible 
conditions. Therefore, when applying Eq. (48) 
to experimental data, the quasi- 
reversibility of the process must be verified. 
The last term in Eq. (48) is dependent on the experimental apparatus and 
can be eliminated by differential assembly of the calorimetric cells. Hence for 
a differential calorimeter Eq. (48) 
becomes 
Using Eqs. (40) and (48) it can be shown that the derivative entropy of 
adsorption is given by 
or for a differential calorimeter where the work of gas compression is com- 
pletely compensated it gives with Eq. (32) 
which is equivalent to Eq. (39). 
The calculation of the integral molar entropy 
is valuable since it provides information especially useful for the selection of 
theoretical models (ZI). 
The use of Eq. (49) requires the computation of the integral in the last 
right-hand side term of this expression. This may be done by fitting of the 
adsorption isotherm and numerical integration or by analytical integration 
of a suitably chosen model. Garrone et ai. (13) have used Rouquerol's 
equations to develop an expression for the integral molar entropy of adsorp- 
tion for Langmuir isotherms. 
For a Langmuir isotherm 
162 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
and 
K 
where P , , ~  
= 
po/K is the pressure at half-coverage. Because se(p) 
= Po 
- 
R In( 
p/po), Eq. (49) can be written as 
~ " ( 6 )  
= 
s%s0 - 
RIn ("d") ----[(I 
q; ; 
- 
6)ln(l - 
6) + 611161 
(54) 
If 0 = 1 is adopted as the standard state for the adsorbed phase, s " . ~  
= 
s'( I), 
the last term in Eq. (54) (configurational contribution to entropy of adsorbed 
phase) disappears. As a result, the standard entropy of adsorption is shown 
to be 
for a Langmuir isotherm. 
A comparison of expression (54) with the statistical interpretation of the 
adsorbate entropy provides additional insight to the significance of the 
different terms in this equation. The total partition function 0 
of a system 
consisting of M equivalent but distinguishable sites and N adsorbed mole- 
cules where M 2 
N is (5,8) 
M!Q(T)N 
@(N, 
M, T) = 
N ! ( M  - 
N ) !  
where M!/[N!(M - 
N)!] is the configurational degeneracy or the number of 
ways N indistinguishable molecules can be distributed among M labeled sites 
and Q(T) 
is the partition function for a single adsorbed molecule. The entropy 
of this system may be calculated with the following expression (14): 
M! 
N!(M - 
N)! 
In@ 
= NInQ + In 
Since the second right-hand side term o
f
 Eq. (58) is not a function o
f
 T, it 
follows that 
(59) 
S = 
K on f i g + 
C i b  
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
163 
where SzOnfi8 
is the configurational entropy contribution to the entropy and 
s t i b  is the vibrational entropy contribution: 
M! 
N!(M - 
N)! 
Szonfi8 
= 
k In 
Using Stirling's formula for the logarithms of factorials of large numbers 
we get for Eq. (60) 
S&,fig 
= 
k N l
n
-
 
- 
M In 
~ 
[ 
,-,I 
M 
noting that k = R/NA, n" = NINA and 6 = N/M, where N
A
 is Avogadro's 
number, we get 
(63) 
Rn" 
0 
S" = nus" = - 
- 
[( 1 - 
6) 
In( 
1 - 
6) - 
6 In 61 + 
Note that the first right-hand side term in Eq. (63) is the same as the last in 
Eq. (54). Differentiating Eq. (63) 
with respect to n" we obtain the differential 
molar entropy of the adsorbate 
At equilibrium we have from Eqs. (38) and (64) 
From Eq. (53) one has for a Langmuir isotherm 
p = - -  
P O  
6 
K 1 - 6  
and substituting the last expression into Eq. (65) one obtains 
from which it can be concluded that the standard state 
for the adsorbed phase 
is equal to the vibrational contribution to the entropy, which corresponds to 
6 = 1 in Eq. (63), or 
S
:
i
b
 = 
s"(6 = 1) 
s"'o = 
(68) 
164 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A
.
 DUMESIC 
B. 
SITE 
ENERGY 
DISTRIBUTION 
MODELS 
An important application of adsorption calorimetry is the determination 
of the site energy distribution. This is usually presented by plotting the 
differential heat of adsorption of the probe molecule as a function of coverage 
(4-0 curve). The traditional way of constructing the 4-0 curve has been to 
construct a histogram by dividing the liberated heat by the number o
f
 moles 
adsorbed from the admitted dose and to locate the resulting point on the 
abscissa at the center of the corresponding increment. However, the error 
in the individual quotients may be large. More reliable values can be deter- 
mined by fitting the integral heats accumulated for the successive increments 
to an analytical function. The differential heats are then obtained by the 
differentiation of the integral function with respect to the amount adsorbed 
(15). 
In this section we discuss two models that have been used to describe 
differential heats of adsorption from integral heat data. 
1. 
Langmuir Model 
The differential heat of adsorption curves often shows steps. This behavior 
apparently corresponds to the presence of a number of homogeneous centers 
on the surface with different heats of adsorption. The possibility of surfaces 
with discrete inhomogeneity was suggested first by Langmuir (16). 
Klyachko 
(17) 
used Langmuir's model to propose an equation that describes the depen- 
dence of the differential heat of adsorption on the amount adsorbed on a 
surface with discrete sites. 
According to Langmuir (16), 
for the adsorption of species A on site *: 
k 
A@, 
+ 
k
+
 
A * 
the coverage 8 
is given by Eq. (53) 
(with p o  = 1 atm) 
e=----- 
KP 
1 + K p  
where K = 
kI/k-, is the equilibrium constant for adsorption. If, instead, we 
have s 
sites, the coverage will be 
where xi is the fraction of centers i and ni and n, are the amount adsorbed on 
site i (i.e., pmol g-' or pmol m-2) 
and the maximum adsorption capacity, re- 
spectively. For large differences 
among the equilibrium constants the different 
types o
f
 sites are filled successively. 
At equilibrium, the amount adsorbed, n, 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
165 
is distributed among all types of sites, and the pressure is equal above all 
sections of the sample: 
If we let the selectivity or distribution coefficient be 
where Aas7+O 
is the entropy of adsorption for site i, then 
n 
1 nim 
nlma1.i - 
nl(a1.i - 
1) 
n. = 
' 
and 
(73) 
is the total amount adsorbed as a function of the amount adsorbed on the 
first site, n, . 
Equation (72) 
shows that a greater difference between the entro- 
pies of adsorption for two sites corresponds to a smaller selectivity, and the 
opposite is true for the heats. Klyachko assumed that the entropy o
f
 ad- 
sorption was equal for all sites on a catalyst (I 
7). More recently Cardona- 
Martinez and Dumesic allowed the entropies of different sites to vary to 
account for the differences 
in mobility of basic probe molecules 
on the surfaces 
of metal oxides (18, f9). 
For a differential heat of adsorption on site i, qi, the integral heat of ad- 
sorption, Q, is 
The differential heat of adsorption is obtained by differentiating Q with re- 
spect to n; hence from Eqs. (74) and (75) it can be shown that 
4inirnQ1,i 
2 
(76) 
i 
dn i 
q = - =  
dQ 
i =  1 {nlma,i - 
nl(a1.i - 
1)) 
nima1.i 
i = l  {nlmal., 
- 
nl(al,i 
- 
Based on Eqs. (74) and (75), the experimental data can be fitted to obtain 
optimum values for nim, 
qi, and al,i. 
Initial estimates for n,, and qi can be 
determined by plotting the average differential heat for individual doses, cal- 
culated by dividing the amount of heat evolved during dose j by the amount 
166 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
I 
Determine QYNp = f(n,) I 
I 
dn 
dn 
dq I 
dQ 
Calculate q =- 
and f(q) =- 
n
n
m
d
 
n3m4 
FIG. 
2. Procedure to fit the experimental integral heat of adsorption of a sample with three 
sites using the Langmuir model. 
adsorbed during that dose, ijj = 
AQj/Anj, 
against the coverage at the middle 
of each dose and choosing values by inspection as shown in Fig. 2. 
When there are steps present in the 4-0 curves, it is useful to utilize a pro- 
cedure described by Hsieh (20) 
to present graphically the acid strength distri- 
bution of the catalysts. It consists of a plot of the site energy distribution 
function, f(q), 
versus the differential heat, q. The usefulness of this represen- 
tation is that for catalysts that show a region of relatively homogeneous sites, 
for example, a step in the q-0 curve, the site strength distribution plot will 
show a maximum. The position and area of this peak allow convenient com- 
parison of the catalyst adsorption properties. The site energy distribution 
function is the negative inverse of the first derivative of the differential heat 
with respect to the amount adsorbed: 
- 1  
- 1  
j ( q )  
= - 
= - 
dq 
d2Q 
(77) 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
167 
2. Polynomial Model 
Della Gatta et al. (15) obtained differential heats of water adsorption on 
q-AI2O3 
by differentiation of a polynomial function expressing the entire in- 
tegral heat curve. For this method, least squares is used to fit a polynomial of 
the form 
k 
Q = 1 
aini 
i = O  
where a, 
are the fitted coefficients. The differential heat of adsorption is then 
and the site energy distribution is given by 
Depending on the features of the differential heat curve, one or more poly- 
nomials might be used to describe the entire range of heat. The use of various 
low order polynomials to fit the integral heat of adsorption curve in short in- 
tervals and then to obtain the differential heat by differentiation is equivalent 
to graphical or numerical differentiation of the raw data and avoids the fluc- 
tuations that can occur at the edges of the 9-8 curve that depend on the 
order of the polynomial used. 
Other models can be used to describe parts of heat curves which cannot be 
easily fitted with the Langmuir model. For example, if a region of heat de- 
creases linearly with coverage, we can assume that there is a set of sites with 
uniform inhomogeneity (17). 
For these sites 
(81) 
q. = 
g o .  
, 1  - 
P.n. 
1 
1 
and the adsorption isotherm is described by a logarithmic equation of which 
the Temkin isotherm is a special case (21). 
The equations developed in Sec- 
tion II,B,l can be modified accordingly to provide a new model which can 
then be used to fit the experimental data. 
C. KINETICS 
OF ELEMENTARY 
STEPS 
Independent of which model is used to calculate the differential heat of 
adsorption, one must verify that the experimental 9-8 curve represents the 
thermodynamic distribution of surface sites with respect to a given adsorbate 
under specified conditions. Specifically, 
one must confirm that the adsorption 
168 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
is not limited by kinetic processes. We shall see later that for many studies 
this has not been taken into account. In this section we shall discuss the nec- 
essary condition for equilibrium with the gas phase. In cases where this equi- 
librium is not established, we shall examine if the thermal energy is sufficient 
for the adsorbed molecules to diffuse along the surface and adsorb prefer- 
entially on the strongest sites at low coverages followed by adsorption on 
weaker sites as the surface coverage is increased. 
Often there is extensive exchange among atoms and molecules that are ad- 
sorbed at different surface sites. This is because the activation energies for 
transport along the surface are low compared to the values for desorption. 
Activation energies for surface diffusion are frequently less than one-half the 
heats for desorption into the gas phase or for bulk diffusion into a nonporous 
catalyst. Bulk and surface diffusivities are considered equally important for 
porous catalysts according to Tsotsis et al. (22). 
For the migration of chemi- 
sorbed species such as 0, 
H, N, and CO, the activation energies have been 
determined to be between 10 and 30% of the adsorbate-adsorbent binding 
energies in the range of 40 to 125 kJ mol-' and are a function of the coverage 
(23). 
Consequently, during their resident time on the surface, the adsorbed 
molecules may move from one site to another and spend more time on the 
stronger sites if the surface is energetically heterogeneous. In most circum- 
stances we may assume equilibrium among molecules in different surface 
sites. To test this assumption we must estimate the kinetics for the different 
steps. 
In general, the rate constant, k,, for an elementary step is given by an 
Arrhenius expression: 
k, = A,exp -2 
{ 3 
where A, is the preexponential factor (seconds-'). For adsorption, the change 
in surface concentration of molecules per surface area n9, 
with a gas-phase 
concentration ng, 
is given by (23). 
- 
dns 
v 
A,- 
= 
so- 
4 A,(1 - 
6)ngexp 
dt 
where so is the sticking coefficient, namely, the fraction of incident gas part- 
icles that adsorb at a given surface coverage 8
,
 
V is the mean molecular 
velocity, and ng is the gas concentration. When the adsorption is activated, 
the activation energy may be of the order of 12-20 kJ mol-' (24). 
On a clean 
surface s0(iJ/4) 
( I  - 
0) is usually between 
and lo2 m s-' if the transi- 
tion state is immobile, or it may be equal to lo2 m s-' if the transition state 
preserves translational freedom parallel to the surface (24). 
For 1 Torr of gas 
at 473 K kept over a surface with a total active site concentration of 2 x 10'' 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
169 
sites m-' [value found for pyridine adsorption on silica at 473 K (19)] 
and an 
activation energy of 20 kJ mol-', the initial rate of adsorption is between 0.6 
and 6 x lo4 molecules adsorbed per site per second. Thus, it would take 
between approximate 2 x 
and 2 seconds to cover the surface if the gas 
concentration were maintained constant. Therefore, it is clear that at high 
temperatures, even activated adsorption is fast compared to the typical time 
scale for one calorimetry data point (e.g., a few hours). 
For unimolecular desorption of molecules that are mobile on the surface, 
the preexponential factor is approximately equal to A ,  = kT/h, and its mag- 
nitude is of the order of lOI3 s-'. If the adsorbed molecules are immobilized 
on the surface prior to desorption, the preexponential factor may be in the 
range of 1013 to 1
0
l
6
 
s-' (23). 
If we consider mobile adsorption, for example, 
the rate of desorption per molecule adsorbed is 
k, = A,exp - 
__ 
{ %} 
(84) 
where Eadee 
= 
qads 
+ 
is the sum of the heat of adsorption and the acti- 
vation energy for adsorption. If the temperature is 473 K, there will be 90 de- 
sorptions per molecule adsorbed each second if the heat of adsorption is 
100 kJ mol-' and the activation energy for adsorption is small, but only one 
desorption per molecule every 40 years if the heat is 200 kJ mol-l. Clearly, 
for the time frame of calorimetry experiments, adsorbed molecules with such 
high heats are irreversibly adsorbed. Assuming that 10 desorptions per mole- 
cule in an hour is a state approaching equilibrium, we estimate that the maxi- 
mum heat of adsorption possible for equilibrium with the gas phase is 140 kJ 
mol-'. Accordingly, if the molecules are not able to diffuse on the surface 
with relative ease and the surface has a distribution of strengths with heats 
higher than 140 kJ mol-', then the experimental heat determined will be an 
average and the true site distribution would not be obtained. 
Surface diffusion may be treated by a random-walk analysis. We assume 
that the molecular motion is completely random and that the 
jumps from site 
to site are of equal length, which is equal to the nearest-neighbor distance d. 
With these assumptions, the preexponential factor for diffusion is (23). 
where v is the surface vibration frequency, b is the molecular diameter of the 
diffusing species, and N, is the density of active sites. Assuming v = lOI3 s-', 
d = 3.2 x lo-'' m, b = 
4.9 x lo-'' 
m, and N, = 2 x 10" sites m-2, the 
preexponential factor should be 1.5 x 10" s-'. If the heat of adsorption is 
100 or 200 kJ mol-', and the activation energy for surface diffusion is 20% 
170 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
1 
E+08 
1 E+04 
l
3
 
1E+00 
Q) 
L 
d 
1 
E-04 
1 
E-08 
100 kJ/mol 
200 kJ/mol 
Rates of adsorption. surface diffusion, and desorption for sites with differential heats 
FIG. 
3. 
of adsorption of I00 and 200 kJ mol-'. 
of the heat of adsorption (24, then the rate of diffusion is 9.3 x lo7 and 
5.8 x lo5 
jumps per second, respectively, at 473 K. Evidently, even for high 
heats of adsorption, the transport of molecules on the surface is fast at high 
temperatures. Figure 3 shows a graphical comparison of the rates for the kin- 
etics of the elementary steps discussed above. 
Equation (84) 
can now be modified so that it corresponds to a quasi-desorp- 
tion from a strong site to the weaker sites on the support surface. In this case, 
the appropriate rate constant is given by 
where Aq = 
q - 
qs is the difference in heats of adsorption between a strong 
site and a site on the support. Thus, the value calculated above for the maxi- 
mum heat possible for equilibrium with the gas phase (140 kJ mol-') corres- 
ponds to Aq; and, if q8 = 100 kJ mol-', then q = 
240 kJ mol-' at 473 K. 
This value is much higher than if we require the molecule to desorb to the gas 
phase to attain equilibrium. 
D. EXPERIMENTAL 
DETERMINATION 
OF HEATS 
OF ADSORPTION 
There are indirect and direct methods for the determination of heats of 
adsorption. These methods are outlined below. 
1. 
Equilibrium Data 
Adsorption isotherms measured at two (or more) temperatures can be used 
to obtain heats of adsorption at constant coverage 
("isosteric heat," 4") from 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
171 
the Clausius-Clapeyron equation: 
The isosteric heats are obtained cutting two 8 versus P curves at a given cov- 
erage together with their temperatures. To improve the accuracy of the deter- 
mination of @‘, 
one measures the slope of the isostere of adsorption, 
4 
st 
In p = 
constant - 
- 
RT 
The dependence of the isosteric heat of adsorption on coverage may be mea- 
sured by applying Eq. (88) 
to a number of different uptakes of adsorbate. 
The equations presented above are based on the assumptions that the ad- 
sorption is reversible, that the partial molar volume of the gas is much greater 
than that of the adsorbate, that the gas behaves ideally, that the surface state 
is invariable during measurement, and that the heat does not change with 
changes in temperature. 
2. Kinetic Data 
sum of the heat of adsorption (qads) 
and its activation energy (Eaads): 
In Section II,C we noted that the activation energy for desorption is the 
‘ades = 
qads + 
‘amdm 
(89) 
By heating using a linear temperature ramp (temperature-programmed de- 
sorption, TPD), 
it is possible to measure Eadcs 
from the desorption spectrum. 
This value is a measure of the binding strength, as can be seen from Eq. (89) 
However, some experimental problems, such as diffusion of the probe mol- 
ecules through the pore structure of the sample, readsorption following de- 
sorption, and heat transfer effects, may complicate the data analysis (28-31). 
Furthermore, there usually exists a broad distribution of site strengths, and 
this is difficult to determine from TPD data. 
(25-27). 
3. Calometric Determination o
f
 Heats o
f
 Adsorption 
Microcalorimetry provides a direct and accurate method for the determi- 
nation of the site strength. Furthermore, if the temperature is sufficiently 
high 
that the adsorption is specific, that is, at low temperatures one will only get 
average heats of adsorption, then this technique will also provide the site 
strength distribution without any other assumptions about kinetic effects or 
172 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
of the actual equilibrium. Adsorption microcalorimetry is a powerful tech- 
nique for the energetic characterization of solid surfaces, as well as for the 
thermodynamic description of solid-gas interfacial phenomena. 
The difficulties in calorimetric measurement of the interaction energy be- 
tween solids and gases lie in the accurate measurements of the heat evolved 
and of the amount adsorbed. The study of the energetic heterogeneity of 
the surface requires the use of small increments of gas or vapor (typically 
< 
10 pmol g-' of catalyst) to saturate the active sites progressively. The 
adsorption of each dose may generate from less than 100 to 1000 mJ in a few 
hours. The measurement o
f
 such small heats and adsorbed amounts requires 
a sensitive microcalorimetric system. A large number of calorimeters have 
been used for the measurement of heats of adsorption. During the early days 
of adsorption calorimetry the most widely used calorimeters were of the iso- 
peribol type (constant surroundings, in Greek) (20,32,33). 
Cerny and Ponec 
(10) have reviewed the theory involved in the determination o
f
 the heat of 
adsorption on clean metal surfaces from isoperibol calorimeters (and from 
equilibrium and kinetic data) as well as the calibration and construction of 
these calorimeters. More recently, Gravelle (34) has discussed their use in 
heterogeneous catalysis. 
Many of these calorimeters consist o
f
 an inner vessel which is imperfectly 
insulated from its surroundings, the latter usually maintained at a constant 
temperature. These calorimeters usually do not have high resolution or 
accuracy. An apparatus with high sensitivity is a heat-flow or Tian-Calvet 
microcalorimeter connected to a sensitive volumetric system. Despite the 
advantages of heat-flow microcalorimeters for the measurement of heats of 
adsorption, they were not widely used until several types became commer- 
cially available that were sensitive and stable over long periods of time and 
could easily be adapted to the study of gas-solid interactions (1, 35. 
36). 
Tian-Calvet microcalorimeters have been described in recent reviews. 
Gravelle (1-3,34) has discussed the principles and theory of heat-flow micro- 
calorimetry, the analysis of calorimetric data, as 
well as the merits and limita- 
tions of the various applications of adsorption calorimetry to the study of 
heterogeneous catalysis. Della Gatta (4) 
has presented a review on the direct 
determination of heats of adsorption with special regard to the thermody- 
namics of adsorption. Rouquerol(11,37,38), 
on the other hand, has presented 
typical applications of the technique with emphasis on physisorption and the 
study of phase transitions in the adsorbed layer. 
E. HEAT-FLOW 
MICROCALORIMETRY 
Heat-flow microcalorimetry was developed originally by Calvet (39). He 
modified a calorimeter previously conceived by Tian (40). 
In the Calvet mi- 
crocalorimeter, heat flow is measured between the system and the heat block 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
173 
itself. The system to be studied is located in an experimental vessel which is 
then placed in the “calorimetric block.” This block functions as a heat sink, 
and its temperature, whether fixed or variable, is controlled by a proportional- 
integral-derivative (PID) 
temperature programmer/controller. The heat-flow 
detector, consisting o
f
 a large number of identical conductive thermocouples, 
surrounds the vessel and connects it thermally to the block so that the vessel 
temperature is always close to that of the block. As will be shown later, the 
heat-flow detector emits a signal which is proportional to the heat transferred 
per time unit. 
To eliminate the effects of external temperature fluctuations in the calori- 
metric block, the calorimeter has two heat-flow meters, which are 
connected in 
opposition. The process under investigation is carried out in one of two iden- 
tical calorimeter vessels, the other serving as the tare or “reference” element. 
This differential arrangement permits the compensation of parasitic pheno- 
mena such as external connections and reagent introduction heat, and it pro- 
vides a good stability of the baseline. (From the development in Section II,A 
on thermodynamics it follows that for adsorption of gas in a Calvet calori- 
meter the heat measured corresponds to a differential molar enthalpy of 
adsorption because all other effects are compensated.) 
If a constant, continuous power, w, is generated inside the vessels, then this 
same power w is transmitted to the calorimetric block by the conductance of 
the thermocouples. Heat flow transferred from the sample by other means 
such as conduction, radiation, and convection is minimized by the design 
of the calorimeter. If the heat flows measured vary within a relatively small 
range, then this residual heat transfer can be considered to be proportional 
to the heat flow through the thermocouples, and one can consider that all the 
heat passes only through the thermocouples. It can be shown (2, f8) 
that the 
analog voltage signal generated by the thermocouples, E, is directly propor- 
tional to the power: 
E = { i } w  
The sensitivity, S, 
is the static calibration constant of the calorimeter and is 
usually expressed in p 
W pV- 
’. 
If care is taken to avoid thermal losses by parasitic conductance of the 
thermocouples, the measurement is independent of temperature variations, 
whether internal or external, and of the nature of the local thermal source w. 
The calorimeter can also operate without mixing because it is not necessary 
to have a homogeneous internal temperature. This is an advantage for mea- 
suring low level signals that would be disturbed by mixing. 
Usually the power generated in the cell is not constant, and then the experi- 
mental cell and the heat flow meter can be respectively represented by a heat 
capacity, M, 
and a conductivity, C, connecting the vessel to the calorimetric 
174 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
block which is at a constant temperature To. 
If we call W the power produced 
in the cell, w the power transmitted by the heat-flow detector, and AT the 
small temperature difference between the cell and the block, then it can be 
shown that the system can be represented as a first approximation by 
dAT 
dt 
W = w + M -  
Since AT = WJC, 
we can write 
M dw 
dw 
C dt 
dt 
w =  
W + - - =  
W + 
'T- 
where T, 
the time constant of the system, is the heat capacity of the cell plus 
contents divided by the conductivity. 
Because the heat-flow detector delivers a signal proportional to the trans- 
mitted power w, the relationship between the power generated in the vessel 
and the electrical signal is 
The determination of the constants S and T constitutes the static and dy- 
namic calibration of the calorimeter. The calibration of the calorimeter may 
be done by means of a known thermal effect produced during suitable condi- 
tions inside the cell, for example, Joule effect calibration (2,4,41). 
The quantity of heat which is developed by the process under investigation 
is determined by integrating the Tian equation: 
Qexp 
= 
S 1;: 
E dt + ST 
~ E ( ' * ) d E  
(94) 
The integration limits tl and tz may be selected in such a way that the com- 
plete thermal effect under study is included within these limits. The second 
integral is zero because a stable baseline reading is recorded before the initia- 
tion and after the completion of the experiment [E(t,) = E(t,)]. 
Thus, the 
total heat produced during the experiment is given by the area under the 
thermogram: 
E O i )  
Qexp = 
S IeXp 
E dt 
(95) 
Equation (95) cannot be used to analyze the thermokinetics o
f
 processes 
that are accompanied by fast heat evolutions because the thermal response of 
a heat-flow calorimeter (the thermogram) is deformed by thermal lags. In this 
case a more complicated analysis (34,32) 
is necessary but is rarely used, and 
we shall not discuss it here. In its place some authors use a semiquantitative 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
175 
approach to describe the thermokinetics of the process in terms of a thermo- 
kinetic parameter. Provided that the amount of heat released in successive 
doses is of the same order of magnitude, a semiquantitative description of the 
kinetics can be made by measuring the peak breadths t,, t1,2, 
tl,lO, and to, 
which are the times necessary to reach the maximum signal and, respectively, 
one-half and one-tenth of it; to is the duration of the entire heat signal (43). 
111. 
Calorimetric Principles 
A. EFFECT 
OF ADSORPTION 
TEMPERATURE 
Studies of high temperature adsorption have been made mainly by means 
of dynamic methods such as differential thermal analysis (DTA) (44-47), 
thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) (44-46, 48, 49), 
differential scanning cal- 
orimetry (DSC) 
(46,49-53), 
or TPD (25-28,45,54-58) and static methods 
such as gravimetric adsorption measurements and IR spectroscopy of 
basic molecules which give a qualitative measure of the site strength distri- 
bution (44, 
45. 55, 57, 59-69). The development of various newly designed 
high temperature microcalorimeters (34, 70-72) of the Tian-Calvet (39, 
40) 
type has brought about a renewed interest in the study of high temperature 
microcalorimetr 
y. 
When external or internal mass-transfer limitations exist, the diffusional 
limitations usually smooth details in the q-d curve, and the adsorbent surface 
appears to be more homogeneous. A clear example of this behavior was the 
absence of selective adsorption for pyridine adsorbed at room temperature 
on HY, Cay, Nay, and NaX zeolites (73). 
The differential heat of adsorption 
plots for these catalysts did not show significant differences, whereas the 
room temperature adsorption of ammonia showed considerable differences 
(35, 
74-76). Furthermore, when the filling of the adsorption sites occurs ac- 
cording to thermodynamic equilibrium, starting with the most energetic sites 
and ending with the weakest, the q-d curve should not show maxima un- 
less physical adsorption and lateral attraction of adsorbed molecules occur. 
However, there have been many instances were q-d plots at room tempera- 
ture show maxima for coverages where only chemisorption should be impor- 
tant (20,36, 
77-80) and even at temperatures as high as 383 (81) 
and 423 K 
(82,83). 
For these reasons, it is important to study the effect of the adsorption 
temperature and verify that the molecules possess sufficient thermal energy to 
obtain the thermodynamically stable site occupation. 
Recently, there have been various studies of the effect of the adsorption 
temperature on the acidic properties o
f
 metal oxide catalysts. Tsutsumi and 
co-workers (84,85) 
studied calorimetrically the adsorption of ammonia and 
pyridine on HY and NaY zeolites, silica-alumina, and silica between 31 3 and 
176 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
673 K. They observed two different kinds of temperature dependence. One 
type was a change in the shape of the differential heat of adsorption of pyri- 
dine versus coverage for HY zeolite and silica-alumina as the temperature 
was raised. The heats for low coverages were higher at the higher tempera- 
tures (473 K and above), whereas the heats for high coverages were smaller 
than those at low temperature. Similar behavior was observed by Cardona- 
Martinez and Dumesic for the adsorption of pyridine on silica-alumina at 
423 and 473 K (18,19). 
The second type of dependence 
observed was a slight 
decrease in the differential 
heat of adsorption of ammonia with an increase in 
temperature. The decrease was observed on HY zeolites above 473 K and on 
NaY and silica above 313 K, but the shapes of the q-8 curves were similar 
at the different adsorption temperatures. 
The difference in shape of the heat curves with temperature was found to 
be due to the difference in the selectivity of adsorption at different tempera- 
tures; that is, adsorption occurred on stronger acid sites in preference to 
weaker or nonacidic sites for high temperatures, whereas random adsorption 
occurred simultaneously on both acidic and nonacidic sites at low tempera- 
tures. To prove this, the authors monitored the change in intensity of the 
hydroxyl infrared absorption bands on HY at the different temperatures for 
the progressive titration of the acid sites with pyridine. In the temperature 
range of 473 to 673 K, the 3640 cm-' band was preferentially perturbed, indi- 
cating that pyridine was selectively adsorbed on these hydroxyl sites in pre- 
ference to those at 3550 cm-'. On the other hand, the intensity of both bands 
decreased simultaneously at room temperature, indicating that random 
adsorption had occurred. Further evidence was found by investigating the 
temperature dependence of the formation of pyridinium ions and the re- 
distribution of adsorbed pyridine on HY zeolite room temperature. For 
example, it was observed that adsorption occurred simultaneously on both 
types of hydroxyl sites at room temperature, but pyridine migrated to the 
3650 cm-' hydroxyl sites on heating and was protonated. This behavior gives 
evidence of the importance of surface diffusion for the equilibrium of basic 
molecules on acid catalysts (18, 19) and corroborated the conclusions that 
the adsorption of pyridine at temperatures of 473 K or higher is selective, 
whereas adsorption at room temperature is random and leads to a monotonic 
heat curve. 
The adsorption of ammonia on HY indicated that both hydroxyl bands 
were effective for the formation of ammonium ions and were almost simul- 
taneously perturbed at 473 K as well as at room temperature. This might 
originate from the fact that the small molecular size of ammonia allows it to 
access the 3550 cm-' hydroxyl sites, which are presumably in a less accessible 
position in the zeolite framework, 
leading to protonation of ammonia in spite 
of its weaker basicity than pyridine (84). 
However, the number of ammonium 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
177 
ions increased on heating, suggesting migration of the adsorbed ammonia at 
high temperature. 
The small decrease of the heat of adsorption of ammonia with temperature 
can be explained by the following thermodynamic equation representing the 
temperature dependence of the heat evolved from a certain site at a given 
coverage (85) [derived from Eq. (32) in Section II,A,3]: 
where q T 2  and q T ,  represent differential heats of adsorption at temperatures 
T
2
 and TI, respectively, and AaFp represents the difference between the dif- 
ferential molar heat capacity of the adsorbed state and the mean molar heat 
capacity of the gas phase at constant pressure. At low temperatures the adsor- 
bate may be localized and vibrationally unexcited and, therefore, will have 
lower degrees of freedom than the gas phase. Under these circumstances A& 
will be negative, and we can expect an increase in the heat of adsorption with 
a small increase in temperature. At high temperatures, however, the surface 
vibrations begin to come into play, and as the temperature is increased the 
translational motion of the adsorbate steadily increases. Under these con- 
ditions the heat capacity for the surface phase may be larger than for the 
gas phase, and an increase in temperature would decrease the heat evolved 
(86). 
However, this decrease will be rather small (of the order o
f
 RT), 
and an 
increase due to specific versus random adsorption can be much bigger. Hence, 
the decrease will be significantly only for large temperature differences. 
Kapustin et al. (87) studied the adsorption of ammonia on sodium mor- 
denites between 303 and 673 K (see Table V). As the temperature was 
increased on wide-pore mordenite (see Section V,B), the initial heat of adsorp- 
tion decreased from 109 to 80 kJ mol-'. Using Eq. (96) it was calculated that 
for localized adsorption of a diatomic gas an .increase in temperature of 
100 K would produce a decrease of 1.3 
kJ mol-', whereas experimental differ- 
ences observed for ammonia were between 4 and 13 kJ mol-'. On a narrow- 
pore mordenite, the heats of adsorption at 303 and 573 K were identical and 
coincided with the heats at 573 K on the wide-pore mordenite. Apparently, 
in the wide-pore mordenite, the sodium cations are more weakly bound to 
the zeolite than in the narrow-pore mordenite, and as the adsorption tem- 
perature is increased, they change their localization which in turn changes the 
heat o
f
 adsorption. 
For decationated mordenites, an increase in the ammonia adsorption tem- 
perature caused a significant increase in the differential heat of adsorption 
at low coverages, the largest increase of the initial heat being from 130 to 
170 kJ mol-', corresponding to Lewis acid sites on a 90% decationated mor- 
denite that was dehydroxylated at 923 K (88-90). The effect of increasing the 
178 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
adsorption temperature on the distribution of ammonia molecules on the 
acid sites was equivalent to that discussed above for HY zeolites. 
Auroux et al. (82, 91-93) observed a behavior similar to that seen for HY 
and HM zeolites above for the adsorption of ammonia over samples of 
HZSM-5 and HZSM-11 in the temperature range 416 to 673 K. The differ- 
ential heat versus coverage curves had the same shape and decreased slightly 
with increasing temperature. Two exceptions in this behavior were noted. 
First, the differential heats for the samples at 673 K were unusually low. The 
initial heat for one sample of HZSM-5 at 673 K was lower than 100 kJ mol-', 
whereas it was near 150 kJ mol-' at 523 K. The adsorption process seemed 
to be almost completely reversible at this temperature and could not be used 
to characterize the strong acidity of the solids. 
The second exception was specific 
for HZSM-5 that had been acidified with 
ammonium chloride and which had large particle sizes. The differential heat 
curve at 416-423 K for these samples passed through a maximum at rela- 
tively low coverages. This behavior could be explained by the combination 
of three independent phenomena: immobile adsorption, mass-transfer limi- 
tations, and preferential location of the most energetic acid sites in the inter- 
nal pores of the zeolite structure. Apparently, the strongest sites were not 
accessible to ammonia when the first doses were introduced but became pro- 
gressively 
covered when further ammonia was added. Electron paramagnetic 
resonance studies (93) 
provided data to support this hypothesis. 
To eliminate the maximum, the samples were heated to 523 K between 
doses to increase the surface mobility of the preadsorbed ammonia and allow 
it to migrate and adsorb on the most reactive sites. This procedure frees the 
most accessible sites and makes them available for new doses of ammonia at 
the lower temperature. After this process was finished, the heat curve gave a 
plateau at a slightly higher value than the initial heat for the conventional 
method of adsorption, and it showed no maximum. 
Additional evidence of the importance of adsorption of basic molecules 
on nonacidic sites at room temperature has been given by Derkaui and co- 
workers. These researchers studied the adsorption of triethylamine on silica 
between 294 and 486 K (71,94) 
and the adsorption of triethylamine, 
benzene, 
cyclohexane, and isooctane on graphitized thermal carbon black between 
293 and 383 K (95). 
The effect of adsorption temperature on metals or supported metals on the 
mobility of adsorbed probe molecules has not received as much attention as 
on metal oxides. GClin and co-workers 
(96) 
used adsorption microcalorimetry 
at 296 and 423 K and IR spectroscopy to study the adsorption of CO on Ir 
supported on NaY zeolite reduced from 383 to 923 K and on Ir supported on 
silica. At 296 K it was observed that for intermediate coverages (0 > 
0.3) the 
kinetics of adsorption changed, with the thermograms displaying long tails 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
179 
which complicated the determination of accurate differentials heats. IR spec- 
troscopy showed that a monovalent iridium dicarbonyl species was formed 
in this region. To accelerate the rate of adsorption and improve the accuracy 
of the heats determined, 
the adsorption was carried out at 423 K. Under these 
conditions the differential 
heat of adsorption on the low temperature, reduced 
sample was nearly constant at 140 kJ mol-' for the range of surface coverage 
studied. The higher adsorption temperature did not change the final state of 
the adsorbed CO, only the rate of achieving this state. 
Summarizing, 
from the experimental 
results 
discussed above, 
it is clear that, 
for samples which possess strong sites, increasing 
the adsorption temperature 
yields a better description of the thermodynamic site strength distribution. A 
temperature of 473 K seems to be appropriate for most acidic surfaces, but 
this should be verified for specific systems. Higher temperatures for acidic 
samples cause a slight decrease in the differential 
heat of adsorption. For non- 
acidic samples, high temperature adsorption also decreases slightly the heat 
of adsorption, but, even more importantly, it produces a large decline in 
the adsorption capacity. Therefore, the site strength distribution should be 
determined at a sufficiently high temperature that the adsorption process is 
specific, but at a low enough temperature that the adsorption equilibrium 
constant is favorable. 
B. ENTROPY 
OF ADSORPTION 
Knowledge of the entropy of adsorption and its change with surface 
cover- 
age provides important information about the mobility of surface species. 
The molar entropy of adsorption can be related to the state of the adsor- 
bate through its configurational and nonconfigurational parts. The degree of 
localization of the adsorbed layer may be obtained by comparison of the 
experimental and theoretical values by means of statistical thermodynamics 
(14, 
97). This information can aid in the identification of active sites, surface 
species, and the surface processes occurring. 
Rouquerol et al. (IZ, 
12) have recently described the experimental deter- 
mination of entropies of adsorption by applying thermodynamic principles 
to reversible gas-solid interactions. Theoretically, the entropy change asso- 
ciated with the adsorption process can only be measured in the case of 
reversible heat exchange. The authors showed how isothermal adsorption 
microcalorimetry 
can be used to obtain directly and continuously the integral 
entropy of adsorption by a slow and constant introduction of adsorbate under 
quasi-equilibrium conditions (1 
1) or by discontinuous introduction of the 
adsorbate in an open system (12). 
Van Bokhoven (98,99) 
developed a new technique called the condensation 
compensation method in which a closed thermodynamic system is used. This 
180 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
system consists of a differential microcalorimeter where one of the cells con- 
tains the liquid adsorptive and the other the adsorbent. The adsorption iso- 
therm is calorimetrically determined by measuring the evaporation heat, 
which is proportional to the amount adsorbed, and monitoring the equili- 
brium pressure. The technique can be used in the same modes as described 
by Rouquerol. A comparison of results with the method of Rouquerol did 
not yield significant deviations for the adsorption of water on activated car- 
bon and on a zeolite and for adsorption of benzene on a porous polymer. 
Garrone and co-workers used the mathematical development in Sec- 
tion II,A,4 to characterize the thermodynamic properties for the adsorption 
of CO on ZnO, silica supported Cr2+ 
and y- and q-AI,O, at 298-313 K (13) 
and NO adsorption on NiO microcrystals at 303 K (100). 
Constant heats of 
adsorption and Langmuir-like isotherms were found for CO adsorption on 
all the samples. From the results of IR spectroscopy, the authors expected 
that CO would lose all degrees of translational freedom and that the rota- 
tional modes were probably transformed into vibrational modes; however, 
only the strong sites on the aluminas showed entropies of adsorption corres- 
ponding to this situation. The weak alumina sites and the other samples pro- 
duced lower entropy changes of adsorption, suggesting that two-dimensional 
translational motion was occurring. Also a linear correlation between enthal- 
pies and entropies of adsorption was found at low to moderate enthalpies of 
adsorption, an example of the compensation effect (101, 102). 
For NO adsorption at the { I O U }  face of NiO microcrystals the detailed 
analysis of IR spectroscopic, 
microcalorimetric, and volumetric data together 
with the computation of the adsorption entropy using Eq. (49) indicated that 
the adsorption process was occurring via two mechanisms at three regions 
of surface coverage. In the first region at low coverages (0 < 
0.1) the molar 
and differential heats o
f
 adsorption were equal with a constant value of 
83 kJ mol-', and both the volumetric isotherm and the molar entropy of ad- 
sorption coincided with that of a dilute ideal system, thus Henry's law 
was followed. The results showed that negligible nearest-neighbor inter- 
action took place under these circumstances. In the intermediate region 
(0.1 -= 0 < 
0.5) 
the volumetric data satisfactorily fitted the Temkin isotherm, 
implying a linear fall of the differential heat of adsorption which was con- 
firmed by the microcalorimetry results. The decline in the heat of adsorption 
was attributed to next-nearest-neighbor repulsions during the formation of a 
c(2 x 2) structure. After the completion of this structure (0 > 
0.5) adsorp- 
tion on adjacent sites which resulted in nearest-neighbor repulsions and tilt- 
ing of surrounding admolecules was given as an explanation for the sharp 
decrease in differential heat of adsorption. The entropy results could not be 
completely accounted for in this region, however. 
Using adsorption calorimetry of pyridine at 473 K, Cardona-Martinez and 
Dumesic (18. 19) 
found that the silica surface was energetically homogeneous 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
181 
for the extents of coverage studied, giving an approximately constant differ- 
ential heat of adsorption of 95 kJ mol-', and that the adsorption data were 
adequately described with a Langmuir isotherm. With these results, an 
entropy of adsorption of -167 J mol-' K-' was calculated. This value 
is lower than the translational contribution to the gas-phase entropy com- 
puted from partition functions. Additional statistical mechanics calculations 
allowed the authors to estimate an activation energy for surface diffusion of 
pyridine adsorbed on silica of approximately 20 kJ mol-'. This suggests that 
under these conditions pyridine retains a significant fraction of its mobility 
and is consistent with I3C-NMR spectroscopy which indicated that pyridine 
adsorbed on silica is in a state of rapid motion even at 301 K (103). 
The results 
discussed in Section II,C suggested that under the conditions of this study a 
surface like silica should aid in the equilibration of a strong base like pyri- 
dine on strong acid sites of low loading silica-supported metal oxides. These 
researchers also estimated entropies of pyridine adsorption on a series of 
silica-supported metal oxides (104) 
and entropies of adsorption of ammonia, 
trimethylamine, and triethylamine on silica and silica-alumina (105). The 
entropies were used to decide if adsorption on these materials was immobile 
or irreversible for different extents of coverage. Again, a linear correlation 
between enthalpies and entropies of adsorption was found. 
Goncharuk and co-workers determined differential heats and entropies of 
cumene and benzene adsorption on various aluminosilicates at room temper- 
ature (106-109). These researchers found that the surface of the monosubsti- 
tuted alkaline earth metakaolinites contain two energetically different types 
of adsorption centers. For example, magnesium metakaolinite had one type 
of site with an entropy and heat of cumene adsorption of - 
165 J mol-' K-' 
and 71 kJ mol-', respectively, and a weaker site with an adsorption entropy 
of -125 J mol-' K-' and a heat of adsorption of 59 kJ mol-' (106). 
The 
first entropy of adsorption corresponds to a loss of three degrees of transla- 
tional freedom of the cumene molecule, and the second corresponds to the 
loss of two translational degrees of freedom. These data, along with kinetic 
results for cumene dealkylation, suggested that the strong sites corresponded 
to Mgz+ 
ions on the lateral surface of the catalyst and these were the active 
sites for the reaction. 
The initial entropy of cumene adsorption on a commercial aluminosilicate 
was measured to be about - 
750 J mol-' K-', whereas the gas-phase entropy 
of cumene at 298 K is 389 J mol-' K-' 
(109). 
This seemingly inconsistent 
result appears to be caused by the dissociative adsorption of cumene at low 
coverages on this catalyst. In this case, the measured heat corresponds to a 
combination of heats of adsorption and reaction. Higher coverages produced 
lower, nearly constant heats and entropies of adsorption. These entropies 
correspond to the loss of between two and three degrees of translational free- 
dom. The adsorption of benzene on these samples did not show abnormally 
182 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
high heats or entropies of adsorption. This appears to be due to the greater 
stability of benzene. 
Bugerko and Pankratiev (110) studied the thermodynamic properties of 
CO, adsorbed on CuBr and CuI. On both samples the results corresponded 
to adsorption on two different types of sites, the first of which was well de- 
scribed by Langmuir adsorption and the second by Henry’s law. For the 
strongest sites on CuBr the entropies of adsorption correspond to the loss of 
one translational degree of freedom, and for the weak sites or for CuI changes 
in the entropy were even smaller. This indicates the high mobility of COz 
molecules on these samples. 
From the discussion above it is clearly seen that the combined determina- 
tion of differential heats and entropies of adsorption provides a more detailed 
thermodynamic description of the adsorption processes. Such a combination 
of data yields important information that allows interpretation of surface 
mobilities, verification of real site strength distributions, differentiation of 
simultaneous or consecutive surface processes, and identification of active 
sites and surface species. The extra effort in determining the entropy of 
adsorption is small compared to the additional information that may be 
deduced from the results. An attempt to estimate the entropy of adsorption 
should always be made when using adsorption microcalorimetry. 
C. THERMOKINETIC 
PARAMETER 
In addition to providing thermodynamic information such as the heat and 
entropy of adsorption, calorimetry can be used to extract information about 
adsorption kinetics. Measurement of the thermokinetic parameter ( t l l z )  
gives 
an indication of the rate at which various processes take place during adsorp- 
tion. Perhaps one of the best examples has been the study of the interaction 
of water vapor with highly dehydroxylated q-AI,O, by Fubini et al. (111) 
in the temperature range 298 to 493 K. These researchers investigated the 
adsorption process, both calorimetrically and volumetrically, as a function of 
temperature. At each temperature the following three consecutive runs were 
made: adsorption on the outgassed sample, desorption, and finally a second 
adsorption. This procedure allowed separation of irreversible from reversible 
processes so that molar integral energies corresponding to both processes 
could be computed. 
The thermokinetic parameter was calculated as a function of coverage 
to separate the different processes involved in the adsorption mechanism. 
Furthermore, for the runs involving only reversible adsorption (the second 
adsorption run for each sample), accurate evaluation of the initial heat was 
possible by extrapolating the curves to zero coverage on a semilogarithmic 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
183 
plot. Previously, it had been shown that for reversible adsorption the dif- 
ferential heats decrease exponentially with an increase in coverage (15). By 
comparing the initial heats at the different temperatures, Fubini et al. (111) 
were able to determine how many species were present in the reversible phase 
at each temperature. The change of the maximum coverages for these species 
with temperature was evaluated from the variation in the slopes of the expo- 
nential curves. With this information, hypotheses were made as to the num- 
ber of species present and their identity. Finally, combining all these data 
with the differential adsorption heat curves for the first runs and calculating 
thermodynamic quantities involving the changes in enthalpy and entropy of 
adsorption for the proposed species, the authors identified three adsorption 
mechanisms: physisorption on hydroxyl groups, coordination of molecular 
water to Lewis sites, and dissociative adsorption on the highly dehydrox- 
ylated surface. These species were characterized in terms o
f
 number and 
strength at 423-473 K because (1) physisorption of water on the hydroxyl 
groups was eliminated as it occurs only at lower temperatures; (2) contribu- 
tions from the dissociative and from the molecular processes may be sepa- 
rated, since the latter is reversible at 423 K; and (3) the thermodynamic filling 
of adsorption sites is realized starting from the most energetic sites. 
Using the same techniques, the same adsorption processes were studied for 
the interaction of water with a- and O-AI,O, at 423 K (112), 
with a-Fe,O, at 
room temperature (113, 
114), and with reduced and reoxidized Bi,O,-MOO, 
(115) 
and Bi,O3-3MoO, (116) 
at 305 K. Analogous mechanisms were found 
for the interaction of methanol with TiO, (117) at room temperature and 
with h-Al,O, between 298 and 473 K (118, 
119), 
where the dissociation step 
produced methoxide species, and for the adsorption o
f
 benzene on a-Fe,O, 
and on y-Al,O, (120) 
at room temperature, where benzene was oxidized to 
carbonates and water. 
The analysis of the shape o
f
 the heat emission peaks in the above studies 
indicated that peaks typical of fast chemisorption processes became more 
asymmetric for moderate coverages. This indicated that an activated process 
started at those coverages superimposed on a nonactivated step. IR spec- 
troscopy verified this conclusion. Della Gatta et al. (112) 
showed that such 
a peak can be deconvoluted by subtracting from it a peak of the same height 
from the second adsorption run for which the adsorption is reversible. 
Fubini et al. (121-123) used calorimetric and thermokinetic results for the 
adsorption of H
,
 
and CO at room temperature to determine the occurrence 
of different crystal faces on different samples of ZnO. They accomplished this 
by identifying the various kinds of gas-surface interactions and by evalua- 
ting the variations in the population and interaction energy of the adsorption 
sites. The interaction of H
,
 
with one of the ZnO samples showed an unusual 
effect: the heat of adsorption, related to the formation of atomic H species 
184 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
“reversibly” adsorbed, was higher than that for the species “irreversibly” 
adsorbed. An analysis of the calorimetric data and thermokinetics of both 
the adsorption and desorption runs suggested that the process was irrevers- 
ible because it involved diffusion 
into subsurface layers. This conclusion was 
based on (
1
)
 
the continuous irreversible uptake in subsequent adsorption- 
desorption runs; (2) the correlation time of contact and irreversibly adsorbed 
amounts; (
3
)
 
the linear isotherms trend for the “irreversible” 
adsorption, char- 
acteristic of dissolution and not of irreversible chemisorption; and (4) the 
very low heat related to this process. Fubini and co-workers also used this 
type of analysis to study the oxidation state of Cu/ZnO by the adsorption of 
CO at 3
0
3
 
K 
(123) 
and the oxidation and coordinative state of surface chro- 
mium ions on Cr0,-SiO, by the interaction with 0, (124), NO (125), and 
N, (126) 
at 3
1
0
 
K. Stradella (127), 
on the other hand, studied the energetics 
of 0, desorption on pure and doped TiO, at 3
0
5
 
K. 
The procedure used in the studies described above can be used to provide 
a more detailed characterization of the acid properties of solid acid catalysts, 
for example, differentiate reversible and irreversible adsorption processes. 
The technique can provide a valuable method to evaluate the strong acidity 
of these materials. It can also be used to check the possibility of dissociative 
adsorption of the basic probe molecules. For example, Auroux et al. (128) 
used these techniques with ammonia adsorption to obtain a better definition 
of the acidity of decationated and boron-modified ZSM-5 zeolites. Because 
chemisorption may be a slow, irreversible process involving activation of 
the adsorbate, a longer time and, therefore, a broader thermogram would 
distinguish such a process from a faster, reversible physisorption process. 
This feature was exploited to monitor the change in adsorption with cover- 
age. The adsorption process was initially slow and became slower, reaching 
a minimum, before a significant acceleration of the process was observed on 
approaching the physisorbed state at high coverages. The minimum rate 
appears as a maximum in a plot of the thermokinetic parameter as a function 
of the surface coverage, indicative of a change from irreversible to reversible 
adsorption. The number of strong sites can be estimated directly from the 
number of sorbed basic molecules defined by the peak maximum, provided 
that one basic molecule interacts with one acid site. 
Auroux observed that ammonia adsorption shifts from strong chemi- 
sorption for HZSM-5 to a process controlled by physisorption (shorter 
t,,,) for boron-modified zeolites. The acidity found by this method corre- 
lated well with the modified catalytic reactivity shown for methanol conver- 
sion, toluene/methanol alkylation, and toluene disproportionat ion processes. 
Stradella (129) utilized the above techniques to suggest that a dissociative 
chemisorption of ammonia takes place on the strongest Lewis sites of re- 
duced Bi,O,-MOO, whereas only relatively weak coordination occurs in 
that same region of reoxidized samples. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
185 
The thermokinetic parameter as defined above provides semiquantitative 
information on the kinetics of the processes occurring in a calorimeter. The 
rigorous mathematical modeling of the thermokinetics for heat-flow calori- 
meters (2,34,42,130-132) 
and isoperibol calorimeters (133) 
has been recently 
discussed. Using these methods it is possible to obtain quantitatively the 
energetic as well as the kinetic parameters describing a number of important 
processes such as adsorption, desorption, consecutive processes involving the 
formation of adsorption intermediates, and chemical reactions. 
IV. Study of the Acid-Base Properties of Oxide Surfaces 
The measurement o
f
 the acidity strength distribution of solid acid surfaces 
has been the subject of many studies. Among the techniques commonly used 
are Hammett titrations, chemisorption of bases, IR spectroscopy, kinetics of 
probe molecule reactions, and TPD. Extensive discussions of these methods 
are available in the literature (e.g., 44,45, 
134, 135). 
Each of the conventional 
techniques has some shortcomings. For example, Hammett titration is one of 
the most common methods, using n-butylamine in nonaqueous solutions to 
titrate the surface acid sites for various indicators with known pK, values 
(e.g., 136). 
The acid strength is generally expressed by the Hammett acidity 
function, H,, 
which is related to the dissociation constant of the acid, the 
pK,. However, because the adsorption of n-butylamine is usually nonselec- 
tive under the conditions commonly used, with adsorption occurring on both 
strong and weak sites, the method typically gives average acid strength distri- 
butions (55, 
134). Moreover, indicator molecules are large and cannot easily 
penetrate into micropores o
f
 porous materials such as zeolites (137). 
Some of the first attempts to use adsorption calorimetry to measure the 
acid strength distribution of solid acids were made by Hsieh (20) and by 
Stone and Whalley (33) 
using isoperibol calorimeters and by Yoshizumi et al. 
(138) using a flow calorimeter. Hsieh measured the heats of adsorption of 
ammonia at 273 K on a series of commercial silica-alumina cracking cata- 
lysts, and Stone and Whalley studied the heats of ammonia adsorption at 
303 K on alumina, silica, silica-alumina, and a molecular sieve. Yoshizumi 
et al. titrated the surface acid sites on silica-alumina with a solution of 
n-butylamine and benzene at 298 K. These investigators were not able to 
determine quantitatively the surface acidity and acid strength distribution of 
these solid acids owing to the inaccuracy of their instruments. The heats 
reported were consistently lower than those reported by other researchers at 
similar temperatures (e.g., 74, 75, 
139). In contrast, Tsutsumi et al. used con- 
siderably smaller (about 5 pmol NH, g-') doses than those used by the 
former researchers. In Section II,A on the thermodynamics of adsorption it 
was shown that to measure heats of adsorption approaching true differential 
186 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
values, (aQ'"'/an}, 
small doses of gas must be used. This fact accounts for 
some of the discrepancy between the early results when compared to studies 
done with more accurate equipment. 
In most recent calorimetric studies of the acid-base properties of metal 
oxides or mixed metal oxides, ammonia and n-butylamine have been used as 
the basic molecule to characterize the surface acidity, 
with a few studies using 
pyridine, triethylamine, or another basic molecule as the probe molecule. In 
some studies, an acidic probe molecule like C02 
or hexafluoroisopropanol 
have been used to characterize the surface basicity of metal oxides. A sum- 
mary of these results on different metal oxides will be presented throughout 
this article. Heats of adsorption of the basic gases have been frequently mea- 
sured near room temperature (e.g., 
35.73-75,77, 78,81,139-145). As demon- 
strated in Section III,A the measurement of heats of adsorption of these 
bases at room temperature might not give accurate quantitative results owing 
to nonspecific adsorption. 
V. Acid-Base Properties of Zeolites 
Zeolites offer a wide range of catalytic applicability in the chemical indus- 
try. Typical applications of zeolites include catalytic cracking, isomerization, 
alkylation, carbonylation, polymerization, 
aromatization, and dehydrogena- 
tion. The useful catalytic properties of zeolites depend on a variety of factors, 
including (1) the regular crystalline structure and uniform pore size, which 
allows only molecules below a certain size to react; and (2) the presence of 
strongly acidic hydroxyl groups, which can initiate carbenium ion reactions 
(146). 
The acidity and acid strength of a zeolite can be modified by changing 
the sample pretreatment or preparation method, by exchanging the cations, 
or by modifying the Si/AI ratio. Thus, it is important to understand the effect 
of these variables and to control them for any given reaction. If, for instance, 
excessive polymerization is to be avoided but high conversion is desired, then 
very strong acid sites must be avoided, though a large total acidity is still 
required. The changes in the properties of the catalyst induced by various 
treatments can be monitored by the combination of adsorption microcalori- 
metry and other suitable techniques, for example IR spectroscopy. In the fol- 
lowing sections we review recent work in this area. 
A. WIDE-PORE 
FAUJASITES 
(Y ZEOLITES) 
Y 
zeolites are usually synthesized in the sodium form; the sodium ions can 
then be exchanged for other cations. For example, the zeolite can be treated 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
187 
TABLE I 
Calorimetric Measurements on NaYZeolite with Different Si/Al Ratios" 
Probe 
T 
qlnllial 
4msr 
qiina1 
nrinn1 
molecule 
(K) Si/AI 
(kJ mol-') 
(kJ mol-I) 
(kJ mol-') 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
NH 
3 
n-Butylamine 
Pyridine 
CO, 
co 
n-Butane 
I-Butene 
Cyclohexane 
Benzene 
298 
303 
313 
473 
573 
303 
303 
413 
473 
473 
298 
298 
30 
1 
30 
1 
303 
303 
2.4 
2.4 
2.5 
2.5 
2.5 
2.0-2.35 
3.Sb 
5.0Sb 
11.3* 
52.0b 
2.0 
2.4 
2.2 
2.2 
2.2 
2.4 
ns.' 
2.37 
2.37 
2.1 
2.1 
84 
94 
75 
70 
65 
105 
105 
100 
100 
100 
110' 
153d 
158e 
124 
230r 
275p 
295' 
42 
35 
41 
60 
50 
79 
61 S 
None 
None 
None 
None 
110 L 
105 I 
100 I 
None 
None 
113 L 
138 L 
158 L 
120 L 
None 
170,155 S 
175,150 S, 135 I 
None 
None 
58 S 
63 L 
75 s 
84 L 
38 
42 
60 
50 
50 
60 
105 
40 
40 
40 
80 
80 
80 
65 
105 
95 
95 
30 
20 
30 
40 
38 
40 
800 
6Ooo 
2500 
2500 
1500 
3000 
1500 
2600 
2300 
2000 
3000 
3500 
3600 
3000 
2135 
2085 
2400 
150 
500 
2900 
3000 
2000 
2500 
35 
17, 
57. 81 
85 
85 
85 
78.81, 145. 148 
78.81 
78,81 
78,81 
81 
148 
148 
148 
81 
I5 
I 
151 
151 
147 
152 
79 
79 
36 
36.81 
' 
The following 
notes and symbols will be used in the other tables as well: T, 
adsorption tem- 
perature; Si/AI, silicon to aluminum ratio; q, differential heat o
f
 adsorption; n, surface coverage; 
qmaI. 
location o
f
 the maximum distribution of sites in the site energy distribution plot, with letters 
indicating the relative number of sites under the peak: L, large; I, intermediate; S, small. 
' 
Dealuminated by extraction with ethylenediaminetetraacetic 
acid (EDTA). 
20% H exchanged. 
45% H exchanged. 
80% H 
exchanged. 
24% H 
exchanged. 
62% H exchanged. 
8 
1% H exchanged. 
Not specified. 
with ammonium ions to exchange the sodium. An ammonium zeolite on heat- 
ing loses ammonia, and such a zeolite is said to be decationated. 
Table I shows 
a summary of calorimetric measurements of the differential heat of adsorp- 
tion o
f
 different probe molecules on the sodium form of Y zeolite (Nay). The 
column in this table with qmax 
as a heading contains the approximate value 
188 
NELSON 
CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
of the differential heat of adsorption corresponding to a maximum in the site 
energy distribution plot [(dn/dq)-q curve]. A letter to the right of this value 
indicates the relative number of sites near that heat. This information pro- 
vides a qualitative idea of the level of energetic heterogeneity on the surface. 
Lack of specific data prevented a more quantitative comparison. In most of 
the cases, the values reported here were determined by us directly from 4-8 
plots by locating the presence of steps. When no steps were present, that is 
when the distribution was almost linear or decreased in a monotonic way, the 
term “none” was used to indicate the absence of a maximum. The final dif- 
ferential heat measured (lowest value) is indicated as qfina,, 
and nfina, 
indicates 
the coverage for this heat. These values give a measure of the overall number 
of adsorption sites, that is, the overall acidity. 
The results at 303 K indicate that NaY zeolite is only weakly acidic, dis- 
playing heats of adsorption between 94 kJ mol-’ for ammonia (27, 
57, 81) 
and 124 kJ mol-’ for pyridine (81). 
This material also contains weak basic 
sites as determined by the heat of CO, adsorption at 298 K (147). 
Increasing 
the temperature from 298 to 573 K confirms 
the effect of adsorption tempera- 
ture on weakly acidic samples previously discussed in Section III,A. As the 
adsorption temperature increases, the initial differential heat of ammonia 
adsorption increases slightly from 84 (35) 
to 94 kJ mol-’ (17,57,82) 
at 303 K 
before decreasing continuously to 65 kJ mol- ’ 
at 573 K (85). Increasing 
300 
= 
-0- 
4.31% Na 
- 
8.30% Na 
250 
3 
3 
3 
200 
Q 
E 
g 
100 
I 
0 
-= 
150 
0 
50 
0 
500 
1000 
1500 
2000 
2 
Pyridine Coverage (pmol/g) 
FIG. 
4. Differential heat of pyridine adsorption on NaHY zeolites at 473 K with different Na 
contents 
(Adapted from Ref. 151.) 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
189 
the Si/AI ratio from 2.0 to 52.0 by A1 extraction with ethylenediaminetetra- 
acetic acid (EDTA) caused a small change in the initial differential heat of 
n-butylamine (NBA) adsorption at 303 K and a significant decrease in both 
the number o
f
 sites with intermediate strength and the total acidity (78, 
81, 
145,148). 
A more substantial effect was observed after the NaY was partially 
exchanged to NaHY zeolite. As the degree of H exchange was increased to 
80%, the initial heat of NBA adsorption at 303 K increased from 105 to 
158 kJ mol-', the strength of the intermediate sites increased also from 110 
to 158 kJ mol-', and the total acidity increased significantly as well (78,81, 
145, 148). 
An even more dramatic effect was observed for higher degrees of 
exchange (149,150). 
Figure 4 shows the effect of Na level for pyridine adsorp- 
tion at 473 K on NaHY zeolite (151). 
Decreasing the content of sodium from 
8.3% (24% H exchange) to 2.24% (81% H exchange) 
increased the initial differ- 
ential heat of pyridine adsorption from 230 to 295 kJ mol-' and significantly 
increased the number and strength of sites with intermediate strength. 
The acid-base properties o
f
 the decationated HY zeolites have been exten- 
sively studied with adsorption microcalorimetry. Tables I1 and I11 present a 
summary of calorimetric studies of the adsorption of ammonia and other 
probe molecules on HY zeolites with different Si/Al ratios, preparation meth- 
ods, pretreatments, adsorption temperatures, and sodium contents. The large 
variety of conditions used in these studies complicates the comparison of the 
materials. For example, the initial differential heat of ammonia adsorption at 
TABLE 11 
Calorimetric Measurements o
f
 Ammonia Adsorption on H Y 
Zeolite with Different SiIAl Ratios 
T 
4
i
.
1
1
1
.
1
 
4m.x 
qrinai 
&I",, 
(K) 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
rnol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(prnol g-') 
Ref. 
298 
2.4-2.5 
3.69b 
5.15b 
303 
2.4 
313 
2.5 
416-423 
2.4 
2.4 (2.4)c 
2.4 
2.43 
2Sr 
3.2/ 
4.1r 
4.26h 
5.5' 
105" 
111" 
113" 
108 
115" 
138 
178' 
185' 
190' 
2009 
170' 
2209 
140-130" 
2009 
95 L 
95 I 
loo 
I 
80 L 
98 L 
135 L 
None 
176 I 
165 L 
164, 151 L 
167, 156 L 
170 S, 160 L 
178 L, 150 I 
130-125 L 
60 
70 
80 
40 
50 
75 
90 
70 
85 
125 
130 
120 
76 
100 
4ooo 
2900 
2000 
3000 
5000 
2200 
2700 
1000 
2000 
2000 
2000 
2000 
1800 
2000 
35, 
74. 
76, 
140 
35. 
76 
35, 
76 
81 
85 
91,147, 
149, 
153 
154 
153 
155 
150 
150 
150 
155, 
157 
I50 
(continued) 
190 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE I1 (continued) 
T 
Ilinilisl 
4m.x 
%inat 
"final 
( K )  
Si/AI 
(kJ mol-l) 
(kJ mol-') 
(kJ mol-I) 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
5.72' 
6.36' 
6.7/ 
7.25' 
8' 
8.5' 
4.5 (9)"k 
9.02' 
9.49' 
9.49' 
10(13)'.' 
7 (14)L' 
12' 
1 
2' 
2.4(16Yk 
16(18pk 
20.9' 
35' 
36.6' 
37' 
37.1" 
49.0' 
49 (SOY' 
> 
100' 
>loo' 
473 
2.4-2.5 
3.7 
5.2 
2.4 
2.8 
673 
2.5 
513 
2.4-2.5 
17 
224" 
181' 
210' 
256' 
2249 
2209 
180 
240' 
203' 
230' 
155 
203 
240' 
255' 
205 
133 
175 
23F 
215' 
218' 
168" 
92 
91 
1 sop 
237@ 
I 
20- 1 30 
115 
135 
110" 
170' 
160 
150 
105 
160 L 
181 S, 170 L 
170 L 
188 S, 158 L 
184 S 
174 I 
140 s 
160 1 
203 S, 160 I 
230 S, 160 S 
155 I 
178 
S 
150 s 
180 I 
None 
133 S 
None 
None 
215 S 
160 s 
None 
None 
None 
None 
176 S 
98 L 
105 I 
107 1 
98 I 
115s 
110,105 s 
None 
95 s 
44 
900 
I5 
1300 
100 
2000 
60 
1100 
80 
600 
80 
700 
70 
1500 
64 
950 
50 
900 
50 
1100 
54 
I300 
64 
1500 
80 
400 
80 
450 
4
4
 
800 
34 
800 
45 
500 
50 
200 
30 
600 
50 
300 
5 
300 
10 
150 
8 
350 
50 
200 
50 
300 
50 
4500 
50 
SO00 
50 
4Ooo 
65 
3000 
70 
1500 
85 
3000 
70 
600 
95 
1750 
155 
155. I57 
I50 
155 
I50 
I50 
154 
I55 
155, 157 
157 
154 
154 
I50 
150 
154 
154 
149 
I50 
155. 157 
150 
155, 157 
149 
I54 
I50 
I50 
70,84,85, 
158 
158 
I58 
85, 156 
156 
57 
57 
85 
The sample was dehydroxylated under vacuum between 573 and 673 K. 
Dealuminated by extraction with EDTA. 
The sample was dehydroxylated under vacuum between 873 and 923 K. 
The sample was dehydroxylated under vacuum at 623 K. 
Al was isomorphously substituted by Si using (NH,),SiF,. 
9 The parent NH4Y zeolite was a low sodium sample (<0.17%). 
' 
Dealuminated by reaction with SiCl, between 473 and 723 K
.
 
unleached. 
' Dealuminated by reaction with SiCI, between 473 and 723 K followed by acid leaching with HCI. 
J Steam dealuminated. 
' 
Steam dealuminated followed by acid leaching. 
' The sample was dehydroxylated under vacuum at 1033 K. 
' 
Values in parentheses are Si/AI ratios determined with NMR. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
191 
TABLE 111 
Calorimetric Measurements o
f
 Other Probe Molecules on H Y  Zeolite with Diflerent SiIAl Ratios 
Probe 
T 
4initial 
4m.r 
4final 
"final 
molecule 
(K) 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(pmol g-I) 
Ref. 
Pyridine 
303 
313 
473 
n-Butylamine 
303 
405 
Piperidine 
473 
Benzene 
303 
Pyrrole 
296 
CH,OCH, 
296 
CH,CN 
296 
CO, 
298 
2.4 
2.5 
2.5 
3.7 
5.2 
2.0- 2.4 
3.6 
11.4 
2.2-2.5 
3.4 
5.1 
5.7 
2.5 
2.4 
2.43 
9.49 
2.43 
9.49 
9.49 
9.49 
2.4 
19 
36.6 
36.6 
130 
135 
160 
155 
170 
155 
155 
155 
190 
170 
170 
170 
I 70 
168 
75 
176 
143 
181 
I
5
0
 
150 
150 
127 
160 
80 
None 
100 I 
145 S 
155 S 
155 S 
150 L 
145 I 
125 S 
I70 L 
165 I 
161 S 
160 S 
None 
155 L 
75 L 
151 L 
143 S, 122 L 
None 
105 L 
100 I 
95 s 
89 1 
105 S 
None 
120 
80 
60 
50 
50 
80 
65 
40 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
50 
75 
5 
25 
65 
65 
50 
65 
50 
50 
1
0
 
1000 
3500 
3000 
2500 
2000 
3500 
3000 
2000 
3000 
2000 
1750 
1750 
400 
2750 
3000 
3500 
4Ooo 
2600 
2200 
1300 
500 
2200 
2200 
60 
73,8/ 
85 
84.85. 
158 
158 
158 
78.81. 
145, 
149 
78,81 
78,8/ 
160, 
161 
161 
161 
161 
161 
84 
81 
157 
157 
I57 
I57 
157 
157 
157 
157 
147 
423 K on HY zeolites with a Si/Al ratio of approximately 2.4 is found to vary 
from 130 
to 205 kJ mol-' (91,147,149,150,153-155). 
The same samples also 
display different acid site strength distributions, some with strong peaks at 
heats that vary from 125 to 176 kJ mol-', whereas others show completely 
monotonic distributions. These strong differences are caused by other varia- 
bles such as the sodium content (as discussed above), the activation or dehy- 
droxylation temperature, and the framework Si/AI ratio. 
Dehydroxylation at high temperatures produces a dramatic change in the 
acidity spectrum of HY zeolite. As the activation temperature of HY zeolites 
with a Si/AI ratio of about 2.4 is increased from 573-673 K to 873-923 K, 
the differential heat of ammonia adsorption at 423 K indicates that stronger 
acid sites are created in the range of 150 to 180 kJ mol-' (91, 147, 149, 153, 
154). Equivalent results are obtained for samples with the same Si/Al ratio 
and dehydroxylation temperatures but an ammonia adsorption temperature 
192 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
of 573 K (85, 156). For zeolites with a Si/AI ratio around 9.49 and dehy- 
droxylation temperatures of 623 and 1033 K (155, 157), similar results are 
also obtained. Dehydroxylation at high temperatures apparently forms strong 
Lewis acid sites at the expense of Bransted sites and yields nonframework 
aluminium (153). 
Dealumination of zeolites can be achieved using several other methods 
such as extraction with EDTA (e.g., 35, 76), high temperature steaming (e.g., 
149, ]
S
O
)
,
 reaction with SiC14 (e.g., 155, 157), or isomorphous substitution 
using (NH,),SiF, 
(150). These procedures can be followed by acid leach- 
ing to remove the nonframework aluminum (149, 150, 155). As shown in 
Tables I1 and 111, the acidic properties of zeolites are modified significantly 
by dealumination. 
Progressive steam dealumination of HY zeolite at high temperatures 
causes the same effect observed above for high temperature calcination (149, 
150, 154), with progressive destruction of weak and intermediate strength 
sites and generation of fewer stronger sites, as can be observed in Fig. 5. 
X-Ray diffraction (149, 158) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) 
(149) studies showed that extraction of Al from HY zeolite led to replace- 
ment of Al atoms by Si atoms in tetrahedral sites. The Y zeolite appeared 
to be recrystallizing into a pure silica faujasite. The zeolite crystals were 
destroyed during the process, yielding mesopores throughout a well-ordered 
silica framework, as had been suggested for dealuminized H mordenite (81, 
144). The alumina species extracted from the lattice were hexacoordinated 
and formed boehmite-like (y-AIOOH) fragments (153). The differential heat 
of NH, adsorption on these samples was similar to that on y-Al,O,. Most 
of the strong Brnrnsted acid sites on the steamed zeolites were poisoned by 
the cationic extraframework A1 species 
(150,159). 
These sites can be recovered 
by acid leaching with HCl at 353 K. 
Dealumination by SiCl, at moderate temperatures produces Y zeolite 
having an increased Si/AI ratio with good crystallinity and without signifi- 
cant extraframework aluminum (155, 
157). Microcalorimetric measurements 
of the heat of ammonia adsorption at 423 K suggest that this method yields 
a maximum in overall acidity at a Si/AI ratio o
f
 6.36. Higher SiAl ratios pro- 
duce acid strength distribution which behave in a fashion similar to that of 
samples discussed above. Dealumination of the HY zeolites by isomorphous 
substitution with (NH,),SiF, 
at 348 K yields catalysts free of extraframe- 
work cationic species and with a much higher acidity than conventionally 
dealuminated solids with similar Si/AI ratios (150). 
Independent o
f
 the dealu- 
mination procedure, it appears that the strength of the strongest Bransted 
acid sites increases with the framework dealumination level (159). 
These results provide evidence that conventional dealumination or dehy- 
droxylation at elevated temperatures forms strong Lewis acid sites at the 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
193 
SllAl 
CA. 
NMR 
0 a 
2.4 
2.4 
o b 
4.5 
9 
d 
10 
13 
o e 
16 
18 
0 f 
49 
50 
g 
2.4 
16 
. C  
7 
14 
u) 
U 
a" 
200 
150 
100 
50 
f 
0 
1 
I 
I 
w 
0 
20 
40 
60 
V(crn3g-l) NH3adsorbed 
Differential heats of ammonia adsorption at 423 K on HY zeolites with various Al 
FIG. 
5. 
content. (From Ref. 154 with permission.) 
expense of Bransted sites. The transformation for the dehydroxylated sam- 
ples appears to be irreversible, whereas part of the acidity of the steam- 
dealuminated samples can be recovered by careful acid leaching (150, 154, 
155, 160,161). 
The effective pore diameter of Y zeolite is determined by the kind of cation 
that balances the negative charge on the structure. Table IV shows micro- 
calorimetric measurements o
f
 different 
probe molecules adsorbed on cation- 
exchanged Y zeolite. Adsorption microcalorimetry has also proved to be 
a useful technique to study cation migration in zeolites (152). Specifically, 
repeated adsorption-desorption calorimetric measurements increased the 
heat of CO adsorption on a Cu-exchanged Y 
zeolite, indicating that Cu2+ 
cations were migrating from inaccessible 
sites for CO to accessible 
sites. Pre- 
viously it had been shown that addition of Cu2+ 
to NaY increased the differ- 
ential heat of CO adsorption on these materials. 
194 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE IV 
Calorimetric Measurements on Cation-Exchanged Y Zeolite 
Probe 
T 
qinitl.1 
4m.x 
4h.l 
"final 
Cation 
molecule 
(K) 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
Ca 
NH3 
298 
2.5 
114 
None 
30 
1400 
35 
Pyridine 
303 
2.1 
130 
None 
95 
2500 
73 
Cyclohexane 
303 
2.1 
75 
50 s 
40 
2000 
36 
Benzene 
303 
2.1 
105 
75 S 
40 
3000 
36 
cu 
co 
298 
n.s.0 
55-100 
None 
20 
500 
152 
Rare earth' 
NH3 
298 
2.41 
140 
110,100s 
65 
2000 
141 
La 
NH3 
298 
2.36 
118 
None 
36 
1200 
35 
Not specified. 
B. 
MORDENITES 
Mordenite zeolites are widely used as commercial acid catalysts. Two types 
of mordenites can be synthesized: "small port" or "large port." The channel 
system for the large port mordenite is two dimensional with a large chan- 
nel with dimensions of 0.67 x 0.70 nm and a perpendicular small pore with 
dimensions of 0.29 x 0.57 nm separated by 0.28 nm restrictions (162). 
The 
channel system for the small-port mordenite is one dimensional for the diffu- 
sion o
f
 large molecules owing to diffusion blocks produced by crystal stack- 
ing faults or the presence of amorphous material or cations in the channels. 
Table V 
shows a summary of calorimetric measurements of the differen- 
tial heat of adsorption of different probe molecules on the sodium form of 
mordenite zeolite (NaM) 
(163-166). 
Ammonia and n-butylamine adsorption 
results at 303 K indicate that NaM zeolite is weakly acidic, displaying initial 
differential heats of 110 (57,81,87,88) 
and 128 kJ mol-' (145), 
respectively. 
Comparing the results for n-butylamine adsorption at 303 K for NaY and 
NaM with similar Si/AI ratios, it seems that the mordenite zeolites have 
stronger acid sites than faujasite by 25 to 30 kJ mol-'. The effect of the ad- 
sorption temperature on the measured differential heats on NaM is analogous 
to that found for NaY zeolites (discussed in Section 1
1
1
,
A
)
.
 
Higher dehydrox- 
ylation temperatures generate some stronger sites while significantly decreas- 
ing the concentration of intermediate and weak sites (88, 
163, 164). Also, as 
the degree of Na to H exchange is increased, both the acidity and acid strength 
increase. At low adsorption temperatures (where adsorption might not be 
specific) the increase in acid strength, as measured by ammonia adsorption, 
is small, but at 573 K the increase is higher than that observed for Nay, the 
initial heat of adsorption increasing from 86 to 184 kJ mol-' as the exchange 
of Na by H becomes 98% complete (88-90, 163, 164). 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
195 
TABLE V 
Calorimetric Measurements on NaM Zeolite 
Probe 
T 
ginilia1 
4mn. 
grinan 
4 i " d  
molecule 
(K) 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) (jmol 
g-I) 
Ref. 
NH, 
303 
373 
473 
573 
673 
lsosteric 
heat 
n-Butylamine 
303 
H2O 
303 
4.6-5.0 
5.0" 
5.0b 
5.0' 
5.0 
4.9 
5.0 
5.0 
5.0a 
5.0b 
5.0' 
5.0d 
5.0' 
5.Of 
5.0 
5.0 
4.6 
4.9 
10.0 
109 
119 
135 
132 
98 
83 
96 
86 
143 
150-145 
173 
153 
168 
184 
79 
90 
128 
245 
240 
92,87,84 S 
112.81 I 
128, 108, 
100 s 
114.99s 
95,90,83 S 
78 L 
86,80 S 
84,78 S 
82.75 I 
130,77 
S 
141, 133, 
117s 
132 S 
128,99 
S 
160 
S, 141 I, 
120 s 
None 
80,76,68 S 
128 I 
70 S 
60s 
45 
77 
70 
63 
54 
63 
58 
71 
75 
70 
68 
50 
63 
71 
74 
47 
98 
90 
100 
5300 
2500 
2500 
2500 
4100 
2500 
2600 
1800 
1400 
1800 
2000 
1800 
1500 
2000 
670 
4100 
1000 
5300 
5000 
57: 81,87,88 
88 
88 
88 
87 
165 
87 
87,88 
89, 90 
164 
89, 90 
88. 163, 164 
88.163 
89,90. 
164 
87 
87 
145 
166 
166 
88-90, 163, 
a 33% H exchanged and dehydroxylated under vacuum at 753 K. 
* 46% H exchanged and dehydroxylated under vacuum at 753 K. 
83% H exchanged and dehydroxylated under vacuum at 753 K. 
90% H exchanged and dehydroxylated under vacuum at 653 K. 
90% H exchanged and dehydroxylated under vacuum at 923 K. 
98% H exchanged and dehydroxylated under vacuum at 753 K. 
Dehydroxylation 
of decationated mordenite at high temperatures also pro- 
duces a substantial change in the acidity spectrum as shown in Table VI. 
Raising the activation temperature of HM zeolites with a Si/AI ratio of 
about 9.0 from 703 to 1023 K increases the initial differential heat of ammo- 
nia adsorption at 573 K from 165 to 180 kJ mol-' and sharply decreases 
the concentration of sites near 160-130 kJ mol-' and the overall acidity 
(156). 
IR spectroscopy of molecular hydrogen adsorbed at low temperature 
showed that mordenite dehydroxylated 
at 703 K contains only Brmsted acid 
sites and nonacidic terminal Si-OH 
groups, whereas raising the pretreat- 
ment temperature decreases the concentration of acidic bridge-type hydroxyl 
TABLE VI 
Calorimetric Measurements on HM 
Zeolite with Diflerent SiIAI Ratios 
Probe 
T 
Qinitisl 
Qms" 
qrinai 
"final 
molecule 
(K) 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ mol-') 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
NH3 
298 
303 
313 
373 
423 
473 
573 
n.s.j 
n.s.j 
Pyridine 
473 
n-Butylamine 303 
Benzene 
303 
5.45 
6.3 
23.5" 
10.04 
9.95b 
9.95' 
8.1 
9.95' 
I5 (IS)'.* 
27 (50)rd 
120 
(120)Ed 
4.95b 
7.45' 
9.95' 
9.95' 
5.0 
5.0f 
6.3 
9.0' 
9.0h 
9.0' 
10 
27.5 
5.43 
5.43' 
13.0 
13.0 
6.3 
12.6" 
16.7" 
23.0" 
13.3' 
150 
128 
140 
I46 
I83 
168 
I73 
170 
171 
I84 
150 
157 
170 
I74 
159 
I65 
I84 
170 
165 
175 
180 
170 
I67 
165 
206 
285 
215 
198 
79 
81 
72 
78 
I20,98,77 S 
I 1  
6,98,78 S 
l30,99 S 
None 
l19,89 L 
135 I, 85 L 
173 L 
142 L 
171 L 
None 
None 
130 L 
I32 L 
146,76 L 
None 
145 
S, 138 I 
160 S. 141 I, 
120 s 
143 
S 
148, 140 I 
160,148, 
140 S 
None 
I67 1 
131 S 
139,135,95S 
118 s 
200 I, 190 
S 
160, I35 S 
None 
62 S 
61 S 
58 I 
71 L 
65 
45 
45 
45 
57 
57 
99 
54 
89 
54 
10 
69 
65 
69 
80 
70 
71 
65 
100 
90 
90 
63 
64 
86 
89 
110 
90 
148 
42 
44 
47 
53 
2000 
5000 
4Ooo 
2600 
3000 
3000 
1800 
2700 
1800 
700 
400 
3000 
2900 
2200 
950 
1300 
2000 
I700 
1200 
1500 
1000 
800 
350 
600 
600 
805 
540 
1000 
I200 
1200 
1400 
950 
141 
81 
81 
81 
165 
165 
168 
165 
154 
154 
154 
165 
165 
165 
165 
57 
89. 90, 164 
163, 164 
156 
156 
156 
163. 164 
163, 164 
167 
167 
15 
I 
151 
145 
144 
144 
144 
144 
" Dealuminated by extraction with EDTA. 
' 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 773 K. 
Dealuminated by steaming between 973 and 1163 K followed by acid leaching with HCI. 
Values in parentheses are Si/AI ratios determined with NMR. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 1073 K. 
98% H exchanged and dehydroxylated under vacuum at 753 K. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 703 K. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 923 K. 
' Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 1023 K. 
j n.s., Not specified. 
li Modified with fluorine 0.43 wt%. 
I 94% H exchanged. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
197 
300 
= 
250 
3 
s 
-200 
I 
.
I
 
150 
C 
I 
- 
c
,
 
f 
El00 
n 
- 
Fresh Sample 
- 
Calcined at 1008 K 
50 
0 
200 
400 
600 
800 
1' 
Pyridine Coverage (pmol/g) 
FIG. 
6. Differential heat of pyridine adsorption 
at 473 K on HM zeolites (Si/AI = 13) before 
and after calcination at 1008 K. (Adapted from Ref. 151.) 
groups with the simultaneous appearance of Lewis acid sites (156). 
Stepwise 
adsorption o
f
 ammonia at 573 K showed that ammonia reacts first with the 
Lewis acid sites, followed by adsorption on Brflnsted sites, and ending with 
adsorption on terminal Si-OH 
groups. Similar results were observed for 
ammonia adsorption on HY zeolites. 
Comparison of the calorimetric and IR studies show that the strongest 
sites on dehydroxylated HM and HY zeolites with heats higher than 170 kJ 
mol-' are Lewis acid sites and that ammonia adsorption is dissociative on 
these sites. The heats of approximately 100 kJ mol-' characterize adsorp- 
tion on Lewis acid sites without dissociation (164). 
Adsorption of NH, on 
Bransted acid sites generated heats in the range of 160-120 kJ mol-' on HM 
and 110-90 kJ mol-' on HY zeolite with a Si/AI ratio of 2.4 (156. 164). 
Figure 6 shows a plot of the differential heat of pyridine adsorption at 473 K 
versus coverage on HM (Si/AI = 13) before and after calcination at 1008 K 
(151). 
The calcination treatment leads to a clear decrease in the number of 
acid sites, with the creation of a more heterogeneous acid strength disribu- 
tion. In addition, the strength of the Bransted acid sites decreases from the 
value of 200 kJ/mol in the initial sample to a value of about 160 kJ mol-' 
in the calcined sample. 
Progressively dealumination of mordenite (154, 156, 165) produces the 
same effect observed for HY zeolites, with progressive. destruction of weak 
and intermediate strength sites and generation of fewer stronger sites. With 
198 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
extensive dealumination even the stronger sites disappear (154). One differ- 
ence in the acid strength distribution o
f
 HM and HY zeolites which can be 
noted from Tables I1 and VI is that when ammonia is used as probe molecule 
the mordenite samples usually show more regions o
f
 energetically homoge- 
neous sites (typically there are three to six peaks in the acid strength distri- 
bution compared to two or four for HY zeolite) which is evidence for the idea 
that a small molecule such as ammonia can adsorb at different locations in 
mordenite with different heats of adsorption. 
Addition of flourine to H-mordenite enhanced considerably the acid 
strength of this catalyst but decreased the ratio of Bransted to Lewis acid- 
ity (167). Using IR spectroscopy of adsorbed pyridine, X-Ray diffraction, 
catalytic activity tests for cumene cracking, and microcalorimetric measure- 
ments of ammonia adsorption, it was shown that some of the acidic hydroxyl 
groups were substituted with fluorine and that the inductive effect of fluorine 
increased the acid strength of the remaining hydroxyl groups. 
The calorimetric results discussed above demonstrate that mordenite 
behaves qualitatively as HY zeolite with equivalent modifications to the acid 
strength distribution caused by changing the same relevant variables. Under 
similar conditions it appears that mordenite zeolites are slightly stronger than 
HY zeolites. 
C. ZSM PENTASIL 
ZEOLITES 
Zeolite ZSM-5 has a three-dimensional pore structure with interconnected 
channels that have dimensions of 0.53 x 0.57 and 0.55 nm (162). Y zeolite 
and mordenite have wider openings of their principal channel networks, and 
these zeolites thus show less molecular shape selectivity than ZSM-5 zeolite. 
Table VII presents a summary of calorimetric measurements of the differ- 
ential heat of adsorption of ammonia, water, and carbon dioxide on the 
sodium form of ZSM-5 zeolite. Ammonia adsorption at 416 K (91.147) 
shows 
that NaZSM-5 zeolite is weakly acidic, whereas C02 
adsorption (147) 
indi- 
cates that in addition there are some weak basic sites. It should be noted 
that of the two samples studied with ammonia adsorption one was 70% H 
exchanged and the sodium content of the other was not given. Water adsorp- 
tion on NaZSM-5 displayed unusual behavior, with a steep increase in the 
differential heat of adsorption at high surface coverages (166). An adsorp- 
tion mechanism was proposed to explain these findings in which adsorption 
occurs first on the hydrophilic sites, consisting of sodium cations and frame- 
work anions where water molecules are bound by dipole-field interactions. 
Further adsorption takes place near these sites through weak interaction with 
zeolite surfaces, and when the number of water molecules close to these sites 
exceeds a certain value, they tend to reorient by forming clathrate-like struc- 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
199 
TABLE VII 
Calorimetric Measurements on NaZSM-5 Zeolite with Different SiJAI Ratios 
Probe 
T 
I"ltl.l 
4m.x 
qrim1 
"final 
4. 
. . 
molecule 
(K) 
SiJAI 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
NH, 
416 
18.2 
121 
None 
76" 
220 
91 
21.0 
130 
None 
8
0
'
 
350 
147 
H,O 
303 
12.9 
210 
140, 80 S, 
240' 
5000 
166 
46.3 
130 
60s 
250' 
2300 
166 
684.7 
130 
50 S 
250' 
1 loo 
166 
CO, 
298 
21.0 
53 
53 s 
39b 
220 
147 
65 I 
72% 
H exchanged. 
Sodium content was not specified. 
At high surface coverages the differential heat of adsorption increased with the coverage, 
apparently because of the formation of highly ordered clathrates. 
tures. The formation of hydrogen bonds inside this structure causes a steep 
rise in the measured heats of adsorption. 
The acid- base properties of decationated ZSM-5 zeolite have been studied 
in some detail using adsorption microcalorimetry, as shown in Table VIII 
(169-173). 
As the calcination temperature for HZSM-5 zeolites was increased 
from room temperature to 1073 K, a maximum in acidity was observed while 
the initial differential heat of ammonia adsorption increased continuously. 
Vedrine et al. (92) 
also found a maximum in the intensity of the IR hydroxyl 
bands (169) of HZSM-5 at 673 K. The IR absorption band of pyridine 
adsorbed on Brgnsted sites followed the same trend as that found for the 
hydroxyl stretching bands, confirming that above 673 K the Brgnsted acidity 
decreased as the dehydration temperature increased. 
Rehydration of the highly dehydroxylated samples at room temperature 
restored only the 3720 and 1630-1640 cm-' bands but not the 3605 cm-' 
IR absorption band. These bands have been assigned to strong Brgnsted sites 
(3605 cm-'), an overlap between the Si-0 
stretching mode and H,O bend- 
ing mode of physically adsorbed water (1630-1640 cm-'), and Si-OH 
groups that are weakly acidic and that are probably present as H+(H,O),-like 
species (3720 cm-'). 
Calorimetrically the initial heat was not obtained on rehydration. There- 
fore, calcination at high temperatures produced irreversible modifications 
to these catalysts. An electron spin resonance (ESR) study of NO adsorp- 
tion showed that the number of strong Lewis acid sites increased with the 
dehydration temperature, particularly when dehydroxylation occurred above 
773 K, whereas IR studies showed that the total number of both Lewis and 
200 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE VlIl 
Calorimetric Measurements on ZSM-5 Zeolire with Different Si/Al Ratios 
Probe 
T 
4i"llid 
4m.x 
qfinal 
"final 
molecule 
(K) 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-l) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
( p o l  
g-l) 
Ref. 
NH, 
41 6 
42 1-423 
473 
523 
563-573 
673 
Pyridine 
473 
Benzene 
M
I
 
CO, 
298 
19.0" 
19.0b 
19.0' 
19.0d 
19.0' 
19.01 
23.0 
27.3 
63.0 
10.2 
12.4 
22.4@ 
22.4' 
24.61@ 
24.67' 
27.3p 
27.3# 
27.3' 
34.6@ 
47.0Q 
47.W 
27.3# 
14.0 
19.0 
20.9 
27.3@ 
27.3e 
34.6 
27.3' 
27.3' 
35.0 
27.3O 
34.0 
94 
23.0 
125 
133 
1 50 
157 
163 
I28 
120 
1 I6 
103 
140 
145 
160 
162 
146 
162 
124 
148 
165 
150 
171 
199 
121 
116 
152 
136 
162 
142 
140 
160 
I70 
92 
235 
61 
96 
170- 150 
151 S 
I38 S 
140 1 
I
5
0
 
I 
160 s 
I28 I 
144 s 
150 s 
120 s 
140 s 
I39 
156,72 S 
160 s 
144.70 S 
72 S 
148 S 
138 S 
None 
144 s 
70 S 
65 S 
143 S 
115 I 
152 I 
136 S 
140 s 
None 
142 S 
None 
133 
S 
None 
160 I 
61 L 
None 
134-139 S 
95-15 
100 
95 
100 
91 
77 
90 
70 
86 
55 
78 
59 
61 
50 
62 
65 
72 
78 
58 
53 
65 
65 
52 
81 
78 
80 
65 
60 
60-80 
72 
63 
50 
95 
54 
2 
650 
650 
650 
650 
500 
450 
500 
650 
350 
450 
760 
780 
670 
950 
6 
50 
490 
490 
360 
490 
580 
400 
450 
670 
500 
450 
330 
80 
450 
300 
270 
480 
100-150 
480 
1400 
90 
82,91 
82, 
91 
169 
169 
169 
82 
147 
91 
91 
I 70 
I 70 
127, 171 
171, 172 
171 
171 
93 
92 
92 
168 
I 73 
I 73 
93 
92 
92 
92 
92, Y3 
92 
92 
92, 93 
92 
163, 164 
92, 93 
151 
80 
147 
a Decationated with HCI followed by heating in wcuo at 655 K. 
' 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 743 K. 
' 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 923 K. 
' 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 1073 K. 
Decationated with NH,NO, followed by heating in D(ICUO at 655 K. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 773 K. After each dose. at 416 K the sample was heated to 
523 K in a furnace for 2 hand cooled to 416 K before the next dose was admitted. 
@ Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 673 K. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
20 
1 
Br~nsted 
sites decreased (91, 
93, 169). 
The appearance of strong Lewis sites 
on dehydroxylation explains the increase in initial heat of adsorption. The 
disappearance of both Br~nsted 
and weak Lewis sites explains the sharp 
decrease in acidity. 
X-Ray photoelectron spectroscopy data showed an increase of about 20% 
in the AI/Si ratio as the outgassing temperature was increased from 773 to 
1173 K, indicating 
that the surface concentration of A1 increased (169). 
Treat- 
ment with HCI to dissolve nonstructural aluminum produced a 15% 
decrease 
in the aluminum content of the sample calcined at 1173 K with respect to 
the 773 K sample. Subsequently, a small extent of dealumination occurred 
during the dehydroxylation at high temperature. It was suggested that alumi- 
num from the lattice was extracted on calcination and resulted in an alumina- 
like species that stayed within the cavities of the zeolite. 
Vedrine et al. (91-93) found that as the aluminum content o
f
 ZSM-5 and 
ZSM-11 (see Table IX) zeolites decreased, the initial differential heat of ad- 
sorption of ammonia first sharply increased, then remained almost constant 
(for 
SiO,/AI,O, ratios between 35 and 100 for ZSM-5), 
and, finally, 
decreased 
for still higher SiO,/AI,O, ratios. However, the integral heat of adsorp 
tion, which measures the total acidity, displayed a moderate and monotonic 
decrease down to aluminum contents of about 2 Al atoms/unit cell. For still 
lower aluminum contents, a sharp decrease 
was observed. From the differen- 
tial heat plots and the changes of the peaks in the acid strength distribu- 
tion plots it was seen that the progressive removal o
f
 aluminum from the 
zeolites not only destroyed acid sites but also modified the acid strength of 
the remaining sites. 
To limit the formation of aromatics from methanol conversion, ZSM zeo- 
lites are sometimes modified by the addition of a Group VA element, for 
TABLE I
X
 
Calorimetric Measurements on HZSM-I1 Zeolite with Diflereni Si/AI Ratios 
Probe 
T 
11111.1 
(Imsr 
(Ifinn1 
"final 
(I. . . 
molecule 
(K) 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
NH, 
416-421 
15 
122 
128 S 
76 
670 
Y
3
 
32.1" 
162 
158 S 
57 
620 
I 73 
32.1 
183 
183 S 
66 
450 
I73 
37 
130 
None 
34 
3 
50 
93 
43 
1 I8 
I28 S 
60 
490 
93 
53 
162 
None 
34 
3 
50 
Y
3
 
CO, 
298 
31 
77 
None 
3 
220 
147 
a Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 673 K. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 1073 K. 
202 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
example, phosphorus, arsenic, or antimony. Vedrine et al. (I 
70) 
characterized 
the acidity of phosphorus-modified 
HZSM-5 zeolite at 423 K (see Table X). 
From the ammonia adsorption isotherms 
and microcalorimetric 
curves it was 
found that the number of acid sites decreased on phosphoration, but the 
strongest acid sites were still present. Indeed, even stronger acid sites seemed 
to exist, which was attributed to the fact that the calorimeter was measuring 
an "average" acid strength for the strongest sites on these catalysts at this 
temperature. 
Apparently, phosphorus first neutralized the outer strong acid sites of the 
channels, whereas the inner and strongest acid sites were not modified. A 
similar effect on the acid sites was observed for HZSM-5 zeolite after 20 min 
of methanol conversion (3, 
93, I70), 
indicating that carbonaceous residues 
were formed at the outer acid sites of the particles. The strongest acid sites 
were only neutralized for samples modified both by phosphorus and by car- 
bonaceous residues produced by methanol conversion. 
The activity of the phosphorus-modified 
zeolite was similar to that of the 
original catalyst, but the yield of light olefins was higher and the yield of 
aromatics, and subsequently of paraffins, was smaller. The changes in cataly- 
TABLE X 
Calorimetric Measurements of Ammonia Adsorption at 423 K 
on ZSM-5 Zeolite Modified with Phosphorus or Boron 
Atoms per 
4i"tli.l 
4
r
n
.
I
 
4rin.l 
%",I 
3difier 
unit cell 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
P 
2.1 
3.9 
B 
0.87 
1.55 
1.6 
1.66 
3.21 
8.5 
0.87 
1.55 
1.6 
1.66 
3.21 
8.5 
9.3 
12.2 
22.78".' 
28.42"~~ 
22.4'#' 
34.87asb 
22.4'*' 
22.4',' 
22.78'*' 
28.42"-' 
22.F' 
34.87"*' 
22.4.' 
22.4'*' 
176 
198 
I38 
126 
150 
145 
153 
I
5
0
 
162 
156 
158 
155 
145 
11 
None 
69 
None 
32 
136.81 I 
74 
124,73 S 
57 
145 S 
59 
142 S
,
 
68 I 
50 
130 S 
59 
None 
59 
84 S 
77 
69 S 
62 
155 S 
60 
52 S 
51 
None 
55 
None 
1 1  
580 
I 70 
490 
I 70 
lo00 
171 
950 
I71 
780 
128. 172 
750 
I71 
780 
128, 171, 172 
780 
128. 172 
700 
I71 
670 
171 
450 
I72 
550 
I71 
300 
171. 172 
150 
I72 
a Boron was incorporated chemically into the zeolite structure. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 673 K. 
Sample was boron impregnated. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 1073 K. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
203 
tic selectivity 
in the methanol conversion 
were suggested to be due to changes 
in the size of the channels and to the neutralization of some of the acid sites. 
Auroux et al. (128), 
on the other hand, observed on ZSM-5 zeolites impreg- 
nated with boric acid that the overall acidity and acid strength were consi- 
derably reduced with increased content of the boron modifier. The gradual 
decrease in heat of ammonia adsorption with ammonia coverage seen for the 
boron-modified samples was in contrast to the abrupt change with coverage 
for the parent zeolite. This result is a consequence 
of interaction of NH, with 
a variety of surface sites exhibiting 
different strengths on the boron-modified 
sample instead of interaction with only two types of strong and weak acid 
sites on the original sample. 
Similar 
behavior was discovered 
in subsequent 
studies 
for ZSM-5 (172,274) 
and ZSM-11 (173) 
zeolites synthesized with aluminum and boron in the zeo- 
lite lattice and for boron-synthesized ZSM-11 zeolites 
(173). 
The modification 
of the ZSM-5 and ZSM-11 samples produced a minor improvement in shape 
selectivity and a large decrease in acidity and hence activity. The initial heat 
for the B-ZSM-11 sample decreased from 160 kJ mol-' for Al-ZSM-11 to 
65 kJ mol-', and the acidity decreased to 10% of the original value. The q-8 
curve also showed a maximum at high coverages, 
which was attributed to the 
formation of a NH,(NH,),+ complex on reacting B-OH-NH, 
with NH,. 
Dehydroxylation at 1073 K increased the initial heat to 170 kJ mol-', a 
value comparable to the initial heat of 185 kJ mol-' on AI-ZSM-11, and it 
sharpened the maximum in the q-8 curve. This behavior is apparently due 
to the formation of a few strong Lewis acid sites. The sample synthesized with 
both boron and aluminum behaved differently than those with only alumi- 
num or boron. The q-8 curve for this sample showed maxima at about 145- 
175 kJ mol-' and at about 60-70 kJ mol-' for 673 and 1073 K dehydroxyl- 
ation temperatures, respectively. The acidity of this sample was 30% lower 
than an AI-ZSM-11 sample with similar Si/AI ratio. The initial heat for the 
aluminum zeolite was 170 to 190 kJ mol-'. It was shown, with IR spectros- 
copy of adsorbed ammonia, that the boron-modified samples showed little 
or no Br~nsted 
acidity. 
D. OTHER 
ZEOLITES 
Klyachko and co-workers (17,57, 73,81) 
studied the acidic properties of 
CaX, NaX, and NaA zeolites (see Table XI). 
The sodium form of X zeolite ap- 
pears to have stronger acid sites than NaY zeolite but weaker sites than NaM 
zeolite. NaA zeolite has slightly stronger sites at low coverages and weaker 
sites at intermediate coverages compared to NaX, but is still moderately 
stronger than NaY zeolite. CaX displays lower heats of pyridine adsorption 
204 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE XI 
Calorimetric Measurements on CaX and NaX Zeolites at 303 K 
Probe 
9inili.l 
4m.z 
9flnsl 
‘kinat 
Cation 
molecule 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-’) 
(kJ 
mol-’) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(pmol g-’) 
Ref. 
CaX 
Pyridine 
1.25 
125 
I16 L 
100 
2500 
73 
NaX 
Pyridine 
1.25 
120 
120 L 
69 
3200 
73 
NH3 
n.s.’ 
83 
82,68,50 L 
50 
8000 
17.81 
Benzene 
1.25 
71 
84 L 
60 
3000 
73 
NaA 
NH3 
2.0 
86 
86,59.48 L 
48 
7000 
17.57 
n.s., Not specified. 
than CaY at low coverages, but the acid strength does not change significantly 
with surface coverage; for Cay, however, the decrease of the differential heat 
is almost linear with coverage. 
Auroux et al. (82, 91) studied the acidity of HZ zeolite using ammonia 
adsorption at 416 K. The calorimetric results indicate that HZ zeolite is sig- 
nificantly weaker and less acidic than either HY zeolite (154) or HM zeolite 
(165) for similar Si/AI ratios but not necessarily the same sodium content. 
Dejaifve and co-workers (168) studied the effect of coke formation after 
methanol conversion on the differential heat of ammonia adsorption on 
H-offretite, H-mordenite, and HZSM-5 zeolite at 423 K. The acid sites on 
fresh H-offretite were somewhat stronger than on ZSM-5 zeolite but signifi- 
cantly weaker than on HY with a similar Si/AI ratio (150) 
or on H-mordenite 
(154, 165, 168). For both H-offretite and H-mordenite there is a marked 
decrease in both strength and number of acid sites with coking. For HZSM-5 
coke mainly affects sites o
f
 medium acid strength. The difference in behavior 
among these materials were explained in terms of differences in shape selec- 
tivity. For example, “internal” coking does not take place in ZSM-5, and 
the decrease in the number of available medium acidic sites is attributed to 
blockage of the latter by hydrocarbon residues which were not converted to 
aromatics owing to their lower acidity. Coking seems to poison and deacti- 
vate a larger number of sites on the other zeolites owing to the wider openings 
of their principal channel networks. 
Auroux (175) studied the acidity of the small-pore zeolite ferrierite, mea- 
suring the differential heats of adsorption of five probe molecules with differ- 
ent basicities. A summary of these results is presented in Table XII. 
Ammonia 
adsorption at 423 K indicated the occurrence o
f
 two nearly energetically 
homogeneous site populations, whereas acetonitrile adsorption revealed a 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
TABLE XI1 
Calorimetric Measurements on Ferrierite Zeolite' 
205 
Probe 
T 
(linitisl 
4msx 
4fI"d 
%
"
?
,
I
 
molecule 
(K) 
Si/AI 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
( p o l  
g-') 
NH3 
423 
15.4 
I60 
158,79 I 
52 
lo00 
CHJOCHl 
296 
15.4 
135 
128 S 
73 
lo00 
H2O 
296 
15.4 
125 
85 S, 60 I 
36 
2000 
C4H4NH 
296 
15.4 
115 
None 
I 
400 
296 
15.4 
148 
146, 128 S 
49 
1800 
CH ,CN 
296 
15.4 
105 
106 I 
64 
I500 
' 
Values from Ref. I75. 
lower but almost constant heat of adsorption for the same range of surface 
coverage, suggesting that the acid strength distribution was homogeneous. 
The differential heat of dimethylether adsorption decreased monotonically, 
implying that over the same range of coverage the acid sites appear essentially 
heterogeneous in strength. Pyrrole, which has an intermediate pK, between 
ammonia and dimethylether, 
gave the lowest heats and extents of adsorption 
of all probe molecules. This behavior was attributed to steric hindrance pre- 
venting this base from reaching the acid sites within the porous lattice. 
Adsorption takes place only on the external surface, and thus pyrrole was 
suggested as a useful probe to characterize this type of acidity on small-pore 
zeolites. Additional studies are needed to determine how these various basic 
molecules probe different features of the acid strength distribution. 
VI. Acid-Base Properties of Amorphous Metal Oxides 
The acid-base properties of amorphous mixed metal oxides can be varied 
by choosing different metal oxide constituents at different 
concentrations and 
by changing the treatment o
f
 the sample (44). 
Thus, it appears that, by prop- 
erly choosing the aforementioned variables, mixed oxides could be used to 
develop new catalysts with desired acid-base properties. The use of micro- 
calorimetric adsorption measurements to quantify the acid- base properties 
of metal oxides and mixed metal oxides has been limited, to date, to a few 
systems. However, for some of these solids, for example, silica, alumina, and 
silica-alumina, several investigations have led to a satisfactory description 
of their acidity and acid strength. We present here a compendium o
f
 those 
measurements and discuss some of the important properties observed. 
206 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
A. SILICA, 
ALUMINA, 
AND SILICA-ALUMINA 
Tables X
I
1
1
 
(176-179), XIV 
(180-183), and XV 
present a survey of micro- 
calorimetric studies performed for silica, alumina, and silica-alumina, re- 
spectively. Silica displays relatively low heats of adsorption for both basic 
probe molecules (e.g., ammonia, triethylamine, n-butylamine, pyridine, and 
trimethylamine) and acidic probe molecules 
(e.g., hexafluoroisopropanol), 
in- 
dicating that the surface sites on silica are both weakly acidic and basic. Most 
of the adsorption over silica is considered mainly to be due to hydrogen 
bonding and van der Waals interaction. Infrared and gravimetric adsorption 
measurements of pyridine adsorbed on SiO, at 423 K have shown that more 
than 98% 
of the pyridine adsorbed was hydrogen bonded (62). 
The differen- 
tial heats of ammonia (18, 74, 85, 105, 140, 147) and triethylamine (18, 71, 
94, 105, 176) on silica show a considerable decrease as the adsorption tem- 
perature is increased. 
In contrast, the surface of alumina has strong acid and basic sites, as 
demonstrated by the differential 
heats of adsorption of basic probe molecules 
such as ammonia (140,147,153,180) 
and n-butylamine (48,177) 
or of acidic 
probe molecules such as 
carbon dioxide 
(147,180) 
and hexafluoroisopropanol 
(1 
79). The temperature dependence of the heat of adsorption for alumina 
is characteristic of a strong acidic surface, with the initial differential heat 
increasing and the adsorption capacity decreasing with increasing adsorption 
temperature. 
Addition of as little as 0.23% 
aluminum oxide to silica (Table XV) 
changes 
the properties of the catalyst significantly. 
The initial heat of pyridine adsorp- 
tion at 473 K increases to more than double the value for pure silica, and a 
maximum appears in the site energy distribution plot (18,19). 
When ammonia 
was readsorbed on a sample which had been exposed to ammonia and eva- 
cuated at 298 K for 6 h, the acid strength distribution was similar to that of 
silica (74). The heats were slightly higher, probably because of interaction 
of ammonia molecules with NH4+ ions. Alumina alone showed acidic pro- 
perties similar to that of the highest loading silica-alumina sample, with 
a slightly larger number of acid sites (140). The initial differential heats of 
ammonia and pyridine adsorption on silica-alumina are similar to those 
determined for zeolites, but the total acidity is significantly smaller. Adsorp- 
tion of different basic probe molecules on silica-alumina displays the same 
temperature dependence discussed previously for zeolites. The basicity, as 
determined by the differential heat of CO, on silica-alumina, appears to be 
weaker than that on pure alumina (147, 180). 
Inspection of Tables XIII-XV shows that the basic strength of the probe 
molecules most used to determine the acid strength of metal oxides seems to 
be ammonia < 
n-butylamine x pyridine < trimethylamine 4 piperidine < 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
207 
TABLE X
I
1
1
 
Calorimetric Measurements 
on Silica 
Probe 
T 
qinitial 
qmsx 
qfinsl 
'kina1 
molecule 
(K) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(pnol g-') 
Ref. 
Triethy 
lamine 
NH, 
296- 298 
296 
296 
313 
373 
423 
423 
294 
373 
4
0
9
 
423 
430 
486 
Isoperibol' 
n-Butylamine 
303 
298 
Pyridine 
473 
Isoperibol' 
Trimethylamine 
423 
H2O 
ns! 
ns! 
nsd 
Hexafluoroisopropanol 
298 
86 
70" 
85' 
55 
53 
70 
44b 
110 
110 
100 
112 
100 
100 
92 
100 
215 
95 
94 
110 
95' 
1209 
1 
lob 
145 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
82 L 
80 I 
75 s 
None 
None 
None 
83 L 
70 S 
100 L 
None 
75 L 
None 
None 
None 
None 
80 L 
40 
34 
70 
4
4
 
42 
70 
25 
40 
35 
35 
112 
35 
35 
36 
4
4
 
35 
92 
41 
110 
44 
36 
35 
40 
1400 
74, 
140 
45 
147 
200 
147 
600 
85 
60 
85 
28 
18. I
0
5
 
90 
147 
410 
94 
320 
94 
320 
94 
240 
94 
200 
I 76 
550 
78 
550 
I77 
105 
250 
176 
40 
18. 105 
71 
I78 
111 
I 
78 
41 
I 78 
lo00 
I79 
40 
18. I05 
60 
71, 
94 
u) 
18. 19.104, 
Fumed silica. 
Heats determined using isoperibol calorimeters. 
Not specified. 
The sample was outgassed at 423 K. 
I Amount adsorbed in pmol m-*; the surface area was not specified. 
9 The sample was outgassed at 673 K. 
' 
The sample was outgassed at 1073 K. 
' 
Precipitated silica. 
triethylamine. The order of basicity for ammonia, pyridine, and piperidine 
has been verified by Tsutsumi et al. (84) by replacing the basic molecules 
with each other on HY 
zeolite at 423 K and monitoring the IR spectra (see 
Tables I1 and 111). An independent study of the basic strength of ammonia, 
pyridine, trimethylamine, and triethylamine adsorbed on silica and silica- 
alumina at 473 K was also consistent with the order shown above (216). In 
contrast, some studies (e.g. 45, 234) have considered pyridine a weaker base 
than ammonia. This is because these bases are generally compared in terms 
TABLE XIV 
Calorimetric Measurements on Alumina 
Probe 
T 
q. 
,ll,I*l 
.. 
4rmx 
h . 1  
4 h . l  
Phase 
molecule 
(K) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
n.s." 
NH, 
Y 
NH, 
n-Butylamine 
COZ 
co 
Trichloroacetic acid 
Benzene 
F'yridine 
co 
e 
H20 
a 
H2O 
b 
CH,OH 
y + 
6 
Hexafluoroisopropanol 
298 
423 
42 1 
42 
1 
423 
298 
Isoperibol' 
296 
425 
298 
373 
423 
473 
298 
309-313 
ISOperibOl' 
298 
298' 
313 
423 
423 
298,373 
473 
298 
150 
l a b  
1 
5Oc 
1 
6Od 
220' 
320 
70 
175' 
145' 
175-185 
220 
290 
295 
122 
59-67 
75 
200 
150 
64 
295 
250 
225 
225 
340-360 
100 I 
None 
None 
None 
None 
1701 
60s 
75 s 
125 I 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
90s 
35 s 
None 
None 
None 
140,110,70 S 
140 L 
150-170 I 
45 
65 
60 
65 
50 
30 
-0 
20 
73 
45 
30 
15 
30 
40 
5-8 
-0 
45 
1
0
 
64 
10 
5 
39 
20 
50 
2000 
300 
600 
600 
200 
4
0
0
 
800 
45 
490 
4OOo 
2000 
1 
700 
1450 
160 
n.s.0 
900 
350 
30 
ns." 
560 
130 
800,500 
200 
300 
140 
147 
153 
153 
180 
177 
48,181 
180 
147 
15,111 
111 
111.112 
111 
147 
13, 182 
48,181 
119 
183 
13 
112 
112 
118. 119 
119 
179 
a Not specified. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 623 K. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 673 K. 
Dehydroxylated under vacuum at 873 K. 
Heats determined using isoperibol calorimeters. 
Heats of immersion. 
TABLE XV 
Calorimetric Measurements on Silica- Alumina 
Loading 
Probe 
(%) 
molecule 
0.23 
Pyridine 
Trimethylamine 
Triethylamine 
NH3 
0.7 
NH3 
13 
NH, 
Triphen 
ylchloromethane 
n-But 
ylamine 
Trichloroacetic acid 
CO, 
28 
NH3 
100 
NH3 
473 
423 
423 
423 
298 
298 
313-373 
473-675 
298 
298 
Isoperibolb 
Isoperibolb 
298 
220 
257 
261 
176 
155 
170 
140-160 
150 
125 
140 
300 
75 
85 
4
6
 
140-160 
150 
177 I 
120 I 
170 
S 
73 I 
105 S 
120 I 
105 I 
113 I 
None 
None 
a 
None 
None 
None 
108 L 
100 
L 
95 
I10 
120 
68 
70 
30 
50 
50 
50 
50 
20 
-0 
-0 
50 
45 
-0 
60 
80 
45 
60 
700 
2900 
1700 
1 100 
500 
500 
1 
50 
90 
1700 
550 
1700 
2000 
18. 19.104. I05 
18.105 
18. 105 
18, I
0
5
 
140 
139 
74, 75. 140 
142.143 
85 
85 
77 
147 
181 
181 
I ,  74, 140 
140 
There was a maximum in the curve of differential heat versus surface coverage. 
Heats determined using isoperibol calorimeters. 
210 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE XVI 
Proton Aftnities, Vertical Ionization Potentials. and Acidic 
Dissociation Constants o
f
 Selected Basic Probe Molecules" 
Probe 
PA 
VIP 
molecule 
(kJ 
mol-l) 
(kJ 
mo1-l) 
pK, 
Triet 
hylamine 
961.3 
114.9 
10.8 
Piperidine 
943.1 
835.5 
11.1 
Trimethylamine 
938.5 
823.0 
9.8 
Pyridine 
922.2 
926.3 
5.2 
n-But 
ylamine 
9 
16.3 
899.1 
10.6 
Ammonia 
857.1 
1046.8 
9.3 
PA, Proton affinity, the negative of the enthalpy for the 
reaction in Eq. (97). from Ref. 184; VIP, 
vertical ionization po- 
tential, the amount of energy (in eV) necessary to remove an 
electron from the molecule in the gas phase, from Ref. 185; pK., 
acidic dissociation 
constants from Refs. 84,185, and 186. 
of their pK, values (see Table XVI) (184-186), giving the following order 
of base strength: pyridine c 
ammonia c 
trimethylamine c 
n-butylamine c 
triethylamine c 
piperidine. 
The acidic dissociation constant (pK,), however, is not necessarily a good 
measure of basic strength for processes occurring on surfaces, because solva- 
tion through hydrogen bonding will tend to increase the apparent strength in 
proportion to the extent of solvation of the conjugate ammonium ion in 
solution (187). 
According to Bartmess and McIver (184), 
the variation in the 
heats of solvation of the cationic conjugate acids of the bases in solution 
can produce basic strength reversals when compared with gas-phase basici- 
ties (185). 
A more appropriate measure of the inherent basicity of a species on an 
oxide surface may be its gas-phase proton affinity, defined as the negative of 
the change in enthalpy for the reaction 
Basel,, + H+(,, 
e 
baseH+,,, 
PA = -AH 
(97) 
When these bases are compared in terms of their respective proton affini- 
ties, the order o
f
 basic strength is ammonia c 
n-butylamine < pyridine c 
trimethylamine < piperidine c 
triethylamine, which is the same order ob- 
served with microcalorimetric measurements. In fact, plots of the initial 
differential heat of adsorption of ammonia, pyridine, trimethylamine, and 
triethylamine on silica-alumina and on silica as a function of the proton 
affinity give linear correlations, as can be seen in Fig. 7 (18, 105). 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
21 1 
04 ~. 
. . -
,
 
- .  
- 
I 
850 
875 
900 
925 
950 
975 
PA (kJ/mol) 
FIG. 
7. Differential heats of adsorption on AI,O,-SiO, and on SiO, as a function of the 
proton affinity of the base (0, 
AI,O,-SiO, initial heat; A, SiO,). (Adapted from Ref. 105.) 
Barteau and Madix (188) 
observed that the relative acidities of a series of 
Bransted acids adsorbed on Ag(ll0) were also in agreement with the acidity 
scale for the species in the gas phase. In a subsequent study, however (189), 
the relative acidities of a series of Bransted acids determined using an IR 
method of titration/displacement reactions on powdered samples of ZnO 
and MgO were in better agreement with aqueous dissociation constants than 
with the gas-phase acidity scale. The authors explained their results on the 
basis of modification of the gas-phase acidities by stabilization of the charge 
on conjugate base anions by interaction with surface cation sites. Thus, it 
seems that even on surfaces there might be acid or basic strength reversals 
depending on the surface. This behavior must be taken into consideration 
when trying to explain catalytic or surface phenomena with data obtained in 
solution or in the gas phase. 
The viability of acid strength prediction using a model developed by Drago 
and Wayland (190) 
was recently tested (18,105) 
for silica and silica-alumina. 
The model is a two-parameter equation to correlate the enthalpy of adduct 
formation in gas phase or poorly solvating media for Lewis acid-base sys- 
tems. Two empirically determined parameters, EA and C,, are assigned to 
each acid, and two other values, EB 
and CB, 
are assigned to each base. When 
these parameters are substituted into the following equation, they give the 
enthalpy of adduct formation for the acid-base pair: 
(98) 
-AH = 
E A E B  + CAC, 
212 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
The parameters E
A
 and EB are interpreted as the susceptibility of the 
acid and base, respectively, to undergo electrostatic interaction and C, and 
CB as the susceptibility to form covalent bonds. The product E
A
E
B
 pro- 
vides the contribution to the bonding from electrostatic interactions, whereas 
C
A
C
B
 provides the contribution to the bonding from covalent interaction. 
This approach is equivalent to the theory of polar covalence used by 
Sanderson to predict the heat of formation of compounds using atomic struc- 
ture, homonuclear bond energies, electronegativity, 
and partial charge con- 
cepts (191-194). The Drago- Wayland equation accurately correlates a large 
number o
f
 enthalpies of adduct formation (195-197). 
The adsorption of ammonia, pyridine, trimethylamine, and triethylamine 
on silica and silica-alumina was studied microcalorimetrically 
by Cardona- 
Martinez and Dumesic (18, 105). The calorimetric results of this study were 
correlated successfully 
in terms of Drago parameters for each catalyst. These 
parameters describe well the acidic properties of silica and the strongest sites 
(Lewis acid sites) on silica-alumina and may allow the prediction of heats 
of adsorption for a wide range of basic molecules with known Drago para- 
meters on these sites. Parameters to describe the strength of the Bransted 
sites could not be determined because the contribution from these sites 
could 
not be studied independently. 
If this approach can be extended to other systems, one would be able to 
predict the heat of adsorption o
f
 a variety of molecules on solid surface 
sites, which would be a major step in understanding the catalytic properties 
of these materials. Furthermore, these values could be used to assess quanti- 
tatively the steps in thermodynamic cycles for existing or new catalytic pro- 
cesses. This information would be helpful in testing the feasibility of new 
processes and suggesting ways of improving existing processes. 
Previous attempts to estimate Drago parameters for solid surfaces met 
with limited success. Fowkes and co-workers 
(198-201) calculated C
,
 and EA 
values for SiO,, TiO,, and Fe,O, using a combination o
f
 UV and IR spec- 
troscopies and a flow calorimeter. They determined heats of adsorption of 
pyridine, triethylamine, ethyl acetate, acetone, and polymethylmethacrylate 
(PMMA) in neutral hydrocarbon solutions. However, their results did not 
provide consistent C
A
/
E
A
 parameters for the surface acid sites. It should be 
noted that the heats determined were for high surface coverages, and these 
values provide a lower bound for the actual acid strength distribution. 
Lim et al. (202) 
used a procedure similar to that described above to deter- 
mine heats of adsorption of pyridine, n-methylimidazole, and dimethyl- 
cyanamide from cyclohexane solution onto PdO crystallites supported on 
carbon. A large set of EA and C, parameters was found to fit the data. The 
heats determined were integral values, and there was a significant contri- 
bution from the support which complicated the interpretation of the data. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
213 
Therefore, although the Drago model seems to offer potential for acid strength 
prediction, additional reliable data must be obtained to test its utility for 
catalytic systems. 
The acidic properties of silica-alumina can be modified by addition o
f
 
highly electronegative species 
containing C
I
 or F. Taniguchi et al. 
(143) 
studied 
the acidic properties of solid superacids prepared by the reaction of gaseous 
antimony pentaflouride (SbF,) with silica-alumina. Addition o
f
 antimony 
to silica-alumina increased the initial differential heat of adsorption of NH, 
from 150 to 170 kJ mol-'. In addition, the maximum in the acid site strength 
distribution for silica-alumina at 117 kJ mol-' was shifted to 137 kJ mol-' 
by treatment with SbF,. The intensity of the peak increased with antimony 
content, indicating that the number of acid sites in this region increased and 
that these sites were homogeneously distributed. 
Infrared spectra of pyridine adsorbed on these catalysts showed that the 
fraction of Brgmted sites on the antimony samples was greater than on silica- 
alumina and increased linearly with antimony content. It was suggested that 
surface hydroxyl groups on silica-alumina were involved in the generation 
of new Bransted acid sites by the interaction with SbF,. In summary, the 
solid superacid had stronger, more homogeneous, and a larger number of 
acid sites than the original silica-alumina samples, and most of these sites 
were of the Bransted type. 
B. OTHER 
MIXED 
OXIDES 
Magnesia has strong basic sites but no acid sites (Table XVII) 
(e.g., 147, 
179,180,189,203). 
However, acidity is generated when magnesia is added to 
silica (Table XVIII) 
(74,104). 
This acidity is exclusively of the Lewis type (59). 
Its acid sites are more widely distributed as compared with silica-alumina. 
The acid strength distribution of amorphous silica-alumina and silica- 
magnesia is more heterogeneous than that observed for any of the pure 
zeolites (HY, ZSM-5, mordenite, etc.). This may in part be due to the presence 
of surface A1 and Mg cations located in different environments. 
TABLE XVll 
Calorimetric Measurements on Magnesia 
Probe 
T 
4initi.l 
4mar 
4fi"PI 
nfinal 
molecule 
(K) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(pnol g-') 
Ref. 
NH, 
423 
-6 
None 
-6 
90 
147 
14 
None 
14 
750 
180 
CO, 
298 
115 
115 I 
10 
500 
147. 180 
Hexafluoroisopropanol 
298 
300 
200 I 
80 
65 
I79 
214 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
A FeO 
0 
20 
40 
60 
Coverage (pmol/g) 
FIG. 
8. Differential heat of adsorption for pyridine adsorbed on 
silica-supported 
oxides that 
showed only Lewis acidity. (Adapted from Ref. 104.) 
Cardona-Martinez and Dumesic (18, 104) used adsorption microcalori- 
metry of pyridine at 473 
K to probe the distribution of acid strength on a 
series of silica-supported oxide catalysts. Depositing oxides of Ga3+, 
Zn2+, 
A13+, Fe3+, 
Fez+, 
Mgz+, 
and Sc3+ 
onto silica increased the acid strength of 
the catalyst. The acid strength distributions for the supported oxide samples 
showed two or three regions of constant heat of adsorption, while silica had 
an energetically homogeneous surface. These results are shown in Figs. 8 
and 9. The Ga, Al, and Sc samples were found to have both Bronsted and 
Lewis acidity, whereas the remaining samples showed only Lewis acidity. 
The initial differential heat of adsorption was found to increase propor- 
tionally to the Sanderson electronegativity of the added oxide, as shown in 
Fig. 10. 
Many different methods have been suggested for determining the elec- 
tronegativity values of the elements (187,192,204-207). The Sanderson elec- 
tronegativity scale (192,193,208) 
is the most often and successfully 
used scale 
in metal oxide catalysis (e.g., 135, 209, 210). This scale has been shown to 
predict accurately a large number of chemical properties such as bond ener- 
gies, heats o
f
 formation, partial charges, bond lengths, and bond dissociation 
energies for a large number of both inorganic and organic compounds (191, 
193,194). 
Incremental adsorption of pyridine indicated that the initial region of 
highest heat corresponded to strong Lewis acidity whereas intermediate heats 
were due to weaker Lewis acid sites or a combination of Lewis and Bransted 
acid sites. This confirmed the results of a previous study using 1R 
spectros- 
copy of adsorbed pyridine (59) 
which showed that the strongest sites on these 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
215 
320 
280 
= 
0 
E 240 
\ 
2 
200 
2 
160 
CI 
lu 
120 
80 
0 
10 
20 
30 
40 
50 
3 
Coverage (pmol/g) 
FIG. 
9. Differential heat of adsorption for pyridine adsorbed on silica-supported oxides that 
showed both Lewis and Bransted acidity. (Adapted from Ref. 104.) 
300) 
1
0
0
'
-
 
Sanderson Electronegativity 
2.0 
2.2 
2.4 
2.6 
2.8 
3.0 
3.2 
FIG. 
10. Initial differential heat o
f
 pyridine adsorption as a function of the Sanderson 
electronegativity o
f
 the doped cation (0, 
differential heat calculated from the initial slope of the 
integral heat versus coverage plot). (Adapted from Ref. 104.) 
216 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE XVIlI 
Calorimetric Measurements on Silica- Magnesia 
Probe 
Loading 
T 
qinilia, 
4m.x 
qrinsi 
nrinai 
molecule 
(%) 
(K) 
(kJ mol-I) 
(kJ mol-') 
(kJ mol-I) 
(pmol g') Ref. 
Ammonia 
20.5 
298 
105 
None 
50 
3000 
74 
Cumene 
a 
293 
71 
None 
59 
35 
106 
Benzene 
a 
293 
71 
None 
40 
56 
I08 
Water 
a 
293 
67 
n.s! 
n.s! 
ns! 
I06 
Pyridine 
0.23 
473 
146 
None 
95 
35 
104 
' 
Mg-metakaolinite, 
composition not specified. 
n.s., 
Not specified. 
specimens were Lewis acid sites. The correlation of Fig. 10 thus has physical 
significance, because both electronegativity and Lewis acid strength are 
defined as the electron accepting strength, and they should correlate. An 
equivalent correlation for the Brsnsted acid sites could not be established, 
however, mainly because of convolution of the acid strength distribution 
peaks with Lewis acid sites. Additional research in this area is needed. 
A qualitatively similar increase in the initial differential heat of benzene 
adsorption with an increase in the electronegativity 
of the added cations has 
been observed for a series of metakaolinites monosubstituted with alkaline 
earth cations (Mg2+,Ca2+,Sr2+, 
and Ba2+) 
(108). 
Rossi et a!. (114, 
179, 
211) 
studied the basic strength of a series of metal oxides by measuring the differ- 
ential heat of hexafluoroisopropanol adsorption, and these authors found 
that the basic strength of the specimens increased with a decrease in the 
electronegativity of the cations in the order SiO, < 
Al,O, < 
Fe203 
< 
TiO, < 
MgO 5 
Tho,. Stradella (116), 
on the other hand, found that the interaction 
energies of ammonia, water, propene, and carbon monoxide were lower on 
the a-phase of bismuth molybdate (Bi,0,-3 MOO,) than on the y-phase 
(Bi,O,-MOO,), which is consistent with the electronegativities of these 
species(Tab1e 
XIX)(115,116,129,212). 
All these studies support the idea that 
electronegativity scales can be useful in correlating acid-basic strengths of 
metal oxide catalysts. 
C. PURE 
OXIDES 
A comparison of acidic properties of a-Fe,O, (Table XX), 
ZnO (TableXXI), 
and TiO, (Table XXII) 
with the other oxides discussed above is difficult 
because extensive 
data are not available 
for these solids. For instance, the dif- 
ferential heats of benzene adsorption on a-Fe,O, at 298 K (120) 
are similar 
to those for y-Al,O,. However, the adsorption of water at the same tempera- 
ture (113, 114) 
seems to indicate that q-alumina is considerably weaker. The 
TABLE XIX 
Calorimetric Measurements on Bi,O,- Moo, and Bi,0,-3Mo03 
Probe 
Bi:Mo 
T" 
9initi.i 
4max 
k",, 
molecule 
ratio 
(K) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
H*O 
2
:
l
 
3050x 
280 
None 
45 
2
5
 
115 
Red 
250 
None 
35 
9 
115 
2:3 
o
x
 
45 
35 
I 
15 
5
0
 
116 
Red 
70 
401 
20 
5
0
 
116 
NH, 
2
:
l
 
4200x 
22 
None 
2 
25 
129 
Red 
325 
None 
1
0
0
 
25 
129 
2:3 
3050x 
120 
80 
S 
15 
60 
116 
Red 
140 
100 I 
20 
60 
116 
3:2 
423b 
- 
3
0
 
3 
65 
147 
co 
2:1 
3050x 
6
.
5
 
None 
3 
3
0
 
212 
Red 
10 
None 
3 
12 
212 
2:3 
o
x
 
1
.
5
 
None 
0
.
9
 
n.s.' 
116 
Red 
3.5 
None 
I .o 
n.s.' 
116 
Red 
20 
None 
9 
15 
212 
2: 
3 
o
x
 
1
0
 
None 
0
.
8
 
4 
116 
Red 
1
0
 
None 
0.8 
4 
116 
C,H, 
2:3 
o
x
 
1
6
 
None 
3 
90 
116 
Red 
28 
None 
4 
90 
116 
T, Adsorption temperature; Ox, sample oxidized at 623 
K in 0
,
;
 
Red, sample reduced at 
Bi,FeMo,O,,. 
n.s., Not specified. 
CO, 
2:l 
3050x 
1
0
0
 
None 
1
0
 
3
0
 
212 
623 
K 
in H,. 
TABLE XX 
Calorimetric Measurements on ci-Fe,O, 
Probe 
T 
qinitial 
4msx 
%ins1 
h i n a b  
molecule 
(K) (kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
H,O 
298 
232 
None 
5
0
 
400 
113, 114 
n-Butylamine 
298 
250-275 
None 
4
0
 
90 
114 
Benzene 
298 
200 
95 
s 
46 
1
4
0
 
120 
Hexafluoroisopropanol 
298 
225 
190 I 
80 
35 
114, 179 
TABLE XXI 
Calorimetric Measurements on ZnO 
Probe 
T 
q. 
,"ll*.l 
. . 
4m.x 
qfinal 
h
i
m
1
 
molecule 
(K) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
NH, 
423 
185 
165 
S 
35 
5
0
 
180 
CO, 
296 
130 
1
3
0
 
I 
35 
500 
180 
co 
298 
44 
None 
44 
6 
13,122 
H, 
298 
60-69 
None 
15 
12 
121 
218 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE XXII 
Calorimetric Measurements on Titania 
Probe 
T 
9l"lll.l 
9
r
n
.
I
 
9fI"d 
4
1
"
d
 
Phase" 
molecule 
(K) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-l) 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
R 
NH, 
296 
130 
1301 
25 
155 
147 
A 
NH, 
298 
110 
1101 
20 
180 
147 
423 
250b 
65s 
20 
360 
180 
n-But 
ylamine 
298 
300 
190 
I 
60 
230 
I77 
C
O
Z
 
296 
125b 
60s 
5
0
 
36 
I80 
co 
303 
59 
None 
52 
45 
213 
Isopropyl alcohol 
298 
210 
140 I 
50 
235 
211 
90%A 
CH,OH 
298 
190-210 
170s. 1101 
39 
400-500 
117 
HexaAuoroisopropanol 
298 
300 
160 s 
5
0
 
155 
179,211 
R, rutile; A, anatase. 
Contained 1% SO, and 0.4% P205 
as impurities. 
adsorption of NH, and H 2 0  
at 423K indicate that all the phases of alumina 
have essentially the same initial site strength, and the adsorption of water 
on alumina is not specific at room temperature. Titania, on the other hand, 
appears to have both stronger acid and basic sites than a-Fe20, or SiOz 
and stronger acid sites than ZnO (13, 122) or MgO (147, 179). Titania ap- 
pears to have weaker acidity and basicity than alumina or silica-alumina 
(1 
17,147, 
177. 179,211,213) 
VII. Acid-Base Discussion 
As discussed above, there have been few systematic studies in which the 
acid or basic strength of materials relevant to catalysis has been correlated 
on a quantitative scale. The utility of microcalorimetric 
measurements of the 
heats of adsorption of various molecules is evident. These measurements can 
be used to determine the acid or basic strength of surfaces and establish their 
effect on the catalytic behavior of the materials. If we desire to control these 
acid-base properties to tailor and improve catalysts for existing processes 
and to design improved catalysts for new catalytic processes, a quantitative 
scale of the acid- base interactions is required. Appropriate correlations, 
perhaps involving electronegativity 
scales, would allow the prediction of the 
acid-base strength of the surface sites which can then be related to the cata- 
lytic activity of those sites. Additional research in this area is required. 
From the discussion above it is also clear that the acid strength distribu- 
tion is not sufficient to characterize a catalyst completely; 
it is equally impor- 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
219 
tant to know both the type and relative concentration of those sites. Because 
bases such as ammonia, n-butylamine, and pyridine adsorb on both Lewis 
and Brmsted sites, it is impossible to determine the acid strength distribu- 
tion of each type of site by only measuring the differential heat of adsorption 
of these probe molecules with a suitable microcalorimeter. It is necessary to 
use a complementary technique or to poison specifically 
only one type of site 
with a substance that does not interact with the other. Given the generally 
acknowledged differences in catalytic activity between Bransted and Lewis 
acid sites, the deconvolution of the acid site strength distribution into con- 
tributions from both types of sites is of particular interest. This has proved 
to be a difficult task, and additional effort is required to develop a quantita- 
tive Br~nsted 
acid strength scale. 
VIII. Properties of Metals and Supported Metals 
Studies in which adsorption microcalorimetry 
using heat-flow calorimeters 
has been used to study metals or supported metals are not as extensive as 
for metal oxides. For an early review of the determination of heats of adsorp- 
tion of H,, CO, O,, N,, CO,, NH,, and C2H, on metals using different 
experimental techniques, the reader may consult the work by Cerny and 
Ponec (10). 
In many of the recent studies, isoperibol, modified DSC, or heat- 
flow calorimeters have been used to measure integral or differential heats of 
adsorption of H,, CO, O,, 
and hydrocarbons. These molecules are generally 
studied because they are involved in numerous commercial catalytic pro- 
cesses. Another phenomenon o
f
 general interest is the nature of the so-called 
strong metal-support interactions. For example, high-termperature reduc- 
tion suppresses 
the H
,
 
and CO room temperature chemisorption capacity of 
Group VIII metals dispersed on TiO, (214). 
Various explanations are given 
for this behavior, one of which being that the heats of adsorption are de- 
creased owing to an electronic effect caused by electron transfer between the 
metal and the support (e.g., 215). 
Another explanation is that the decrease in 
chemisorption 
is produced by physical blockage of metal surface sites created 
by the migration of TiO, species onto the metal surface (e.g., 216). Adsorp- 
tion microcalorimetry 
can help to distinguish these phenomena. 
A .  HYDROGEN 
AND CARBON MONOXIDE 
ADSORPTION 
Tables XXIII-XXVII summarize calorimetric studies of H2 and CO ad- 
sorption on different supported and unsupported metals. Vannice et d. 
deter- 
mined integral heats of H, and CO adsorption on Pt (217,218) 
and Pd (219) 
supported on Si02, 
Al,O,, Si02-A1,03, and TiO, using a DSC modified 
220 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE XXlIl 
Calorimetric Measurements of H2 
on Supported Pt" 
Metal 
Reduction 
(liniti.1 
4m.z 
4rin.1 
%"a1 
Support 
loading 
temperature (K) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
rno1-I) 
(pmol g-') 
Ref. 
None 
- 
113 
52 
3 
Integralb 
Integral 
2.0 
221 
SiO, 
1 
.o 
113 
83 
80 S 
30 
20 
226 
1.2 
613 
90' 
15 
S 
I5 
11 
233 
2.1 
123 
48 f 
3 
Integral 
Integral 
15.5 
221 
6.3 
613 
I10 
I10 
60 
250 
227 
V - A W 3  
2. I 
123 
49 f 
3 
Integral 
Integral 
26.6 
221 
TiO, 
2.0 
413 
51-63" 
Integral 
Integral 
24-36 
220 
2.0 
113 
25-91d 
Integral 
Integral 
1.2-1.5 
220 
NaY 
I .o 
613 
9 s  
50 S 
25 
19 
233 
K-L zeolite 
1.0 
613 
85' 
15 
S 
25 
24 
233 
Ba-L zeolite 
1.0 
613 
105' 
None 
30 
28 
233 
Si0,-AI,O, 
1.5 
123 
46 f 
3 
Integral 
Integral 
20.2 
221 
Metal loading in wt%. Adsorption temperature is 300 K 
unless otherwise specified. 
Heats are integral. In this case qinillal 
refers to irreversible adsorption if specified, and qfinsl 
refers to 
Adsorption temperature 390 K. 
Were not corrected as in Ref. 221. 
total adsorption. 
TABLE XXlV 
Calorimetric Measurements of CO on Supported Pt" 
Metal 
Reduction 
%"ilia1 
4max 
qrin.31 
h * a i  
Support 
loading 
temperature (K) (kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
(pmol g-I) 
Ref. 
SiO, 
q-A1203 
"?-A1203 
SO,-AI,O, 
TiO, 
NaY 
K-L zeolite 
Ba-L zeolite 
I .o 
1.2 
2. I 
6.3 
2.1 
5.0 
2. I 
2.0 
I .o 
I .o 
1 
.o 
123 
613 
123 
613 
123 
113 
123 
413 
613 
613 
613 
I20 
I45 
103-123 
160 
100 
125 
91 
92 
145' 
145' 
I 6
0
'
 
110s 
120 s 
Integralb 
160 
Integral 
None 
Integral 
Integral 
None 
115s 
None 
1
0
 
15 
Integral 
40 
Integral 
70 
Integral 
Integral 
40 
40 
40 
16 
226 
22 
233 
12 
22 
I 
200 
22 7 
49.0 
221 
0 = O M  
230 
26.5 
221 
32.8 
221 
28 
233 
28 
233 
31 
233 
Metal loading in wt%. Adsorption temperature is 300 K 
unless otherwise specified. 
Heats are integral. In this case qinilial 
refers to irreversible adsorption if specified, and qfinsl 
refers to total 
Adsorption temperature 390 K. 
adsorption. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
22 
1 
TABLE XXV 
Calorimetric Measurements of H ,  on Supported Pd" 
Metal 
Reduction 
qinitisl 
Support 
loading 
temperature (K) 
(kJ 
mol-') 
None 
- 
573 
62 f 
1 
SO, 
0.39 
573 
68 
0.48 
573 
71 
1.23 
573 
73 
2.5 
1.23 
673 
101 
1.71 
673 
61 f 3  
2.10 
573 
75 f 
2 
2.10 
673 
87 
7 
0.98 
673 
78 
8 
1.16 
573 
72 
1.95 
448 
57 f 
2 
I .95 
673 
58-70 
AID, 
0.32 
573 
72 
5 
0.36 
573 
77 f 
7 
0.50'.d 
523 
110 f 
5 
OSO'.' 
523 
125 f 
5 
0.54 
573 
14 f 
2 
I .80 
673 
77 
2.33 
573 
69 
1 
2.33 
673 
65 f 
0.5 
2.03 
448 
65 f 
4 
Si0,-AI,O, 
0.98 
573 
73 
TiO, 
1.88 
448 
64f1 
2.03 
773 
52-85 
4mar 
(kJ 
mol-') 
Integralb 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
I10 
125 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
%ins1 
(kJ 
mol-') 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
30 
30 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
6 
8 
1 1  
4
0
 
36.5 
9 
67 
66 
28.5 
21 
30 
35.5 
16 
7 
1
0
 
0 = 0.95 
0 = 0.95 
13.5 
39.5 
52 
41 
14 
30 
1.3-1.7 
Ref. 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
228 
228 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
224 
__ 
" Metal loading in wt%. Adsorption temperature is 300 K unless otherwise specified. 
Heats are integral. In this case qinilia, 
refers to irreversible adsorption if specified and qfinal 
refers to 
adsorption. 
' 
Adsorption a1 323 K. 
Pd dispersion of 26%. 
' 
Pd dispersion of 97%. 
to work as an isoperibol calorimeter. In a subsequent study they discovered 
that the original results had errors which were significant for the adsorption 
of H2. 
Specifically, they found that it was necessary to use helium as a car- 
rier gas to keep the sample temperature near the calorimeter sink tempera- 
ture (220,221). 
Alternatively, they could have used a mixture of carrier gases 
with a thermal conductivity near that of the gas in the sample cell. By varying 
the composition of the mixture to maintain the thermal conductivities equal, 
an enhancement in the accuracy of the heats determined would be achieved. 
Such a procedure has been described and used to study gas-solid reactions 
total 
TABLE XXVl 
Calorimetric Measurements o
f
 CO on Supported Pd" 
Metal 
Reduction 
qlnlllsl 
4rn.l 
qllnsl 
h n a l  
Support 
loading 
temperature (K) 
(kJ 
mol-*) (kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(jmol g-I) 
Ref. 
None 
- 
SiO, 
0.39 
0.48 
1.23 
1.23 
1.71 
2.10 
2.10 
SO,-AI,O, 
0.98 
0.98 
1.16 
1.95 
1.95 
A1*03 
0.32 
0.36 
0.36 
0.50' 
0.54 
1.80 
2.33 
2.33 
5.0 
TiO, 
1.88 
2.03 
2.03 
573 
573 
573 
573 
673 
673 
573 
673 
573 
673 
573 
448 
673 
573 
448 
573 
523d 
573 
673 
573 
673 
773 
448 
448 
773 
100 
150 
123 
148 
135 
104 
136 
I20 
115 
133 
122 
93 
71-93 
136 
98 
150 
140+5 
141 
85 
97 
82 
125 
127 
100 
71-131 
Integralb 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
140 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
None 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
30 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
65 
Integral 
Integral 
Integral 
4.5 
20 
21.5 
77 
77.5 
15.5 
127.5 
119.5 
57 
34 
59 
69.5 
20-55 
15.5 
19.5 
16 
0 = 0.95 
30 
45 
75.5 
65 
0 = 0.85 
22 
64.5 
3.2-4.4 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
225 
228 
225 
225 
225 
225 
230 
225 
225 
225 
a Metal loading in w t x .  Adsorption temperature is 300 K unless otherwise specified. 
Heats are integral. In this case qlnltlal 
refers to irreversible adsorption if specified, and qrlnsl 
refers to total 
Pd dispersion of 26%; Pd dispersion of 97%. 
adsorption. 
,
I
 Adsorption at 323 K. 
TABLE XXVIl 
Calorimetric Measurements of CO on Different Catalysts" 
Metal 
Reduction 
qlnlllsl 
4mar 
4fl"al 
nrina1 
Catalyst 
loading 
temperature(K) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
(pmol g-l) 
Ref. 
_______ 
Fe/MgO 
15.1 
673 
Ru/C 
11.2 
673 
Rh/y-Al,O, 
5.0 
773 
Ir/y-Al,O, 
2.0 
773 
Ir/NaY 
3.3 
383 
383 
773 
923 
ns.' 
- 
D
Y
 
110 
138 
120 
118 
1 
I8 
140b 
130 
I35 
100 
80 L 
I35 S 
115 I 
118 L 
1181 
135 L 
138 I 
130 I 
360 I 
40 
I05 
60 
1 
I8 
108 
130 
I IS 
I30 
150 
170 
70 
tI = 0.9 
0 = 0.8 
80 
210 
55 
46 
325 
23 
I 
229 
230 
230 
96 
96 
96 
96 
234 
' 
Metal loading in wt'x. Adsorption temperature is 298 K unless otherwise specified. 
I, Adsorption at 423 K. 
' 
n.s.. Not specified. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
223 
in a DSC by Rejai and Gonzalez (222, 
223). 
The corrected results in the pre- 
vious study showed that the integral heat of adsorption of H, at 300 K on 
supported Pt was near 56 k 
10 kJ mol-' for all samples. This value was in- 
dependent of the Pt crystallite size. The heat of adsorption on the Pt/TiO, 
catalysts reduced at high temperatures was not significantly lower than on 
other samples, which supported the explanation that most of the decrease in 
hydrogen adsorption capacity was due to physical blockage of the Pt surface 
by the migration of the support. Heats of hydrogen adsorption on supported 
Pd catalysts were between 59 and 67 kJ mol- ' (224). 
The integral heat of 
CO adsorption at 300-320 K on the supported Pt catalysts varied from 
84 kJ mol-' for Pt/TiO, reduced at low temperatures to 134 kJ mol-' for 
Pt/SiO, samples. Adsorption on supported Pd produced heats near 105 k 
21 kJ mol-' (225). 
In contrast to H, adsorption, the strength of CO adsorp- 
tion decreased with a decrease in the size of the crystallites for both Pt and 
Pd samples. The Pt/TiO, catalysts reduced at high temperature seemed to 
produce the lowest heats of adsorption. No support effects were observed for 
the Pd catalysts. 
The results of studies involving integral heats must be analyzed with cau- 
tion because integral heats are average values for large extents of coverage 
and do not give information about surface heterogeneity. In contrast, an 
advantage in determining differential heats of adsorption is that information 
is provided about the site strength as a function of coverage. For example, 
the differential heats of CO and H, adsorption were measured at 308 K on 
1 wt% Pt/SiO, reduced at 773 K and 10 wt% Ir/SiO, reduced at 673 K (226). 
The heat of adsorption decreased on Pt/SiO, with increasing coverage from 
120 to 56 kJ mol-' for CO and from 83 to 58 kJ mol-' for H,. The integral 
heats in this region were 101 kJ mo1-I for CO and 72 kJ mol-' for H,. On 
Ir/SiO, the differential heat of adsorption decreased from 142 to 75 kJ mol-' 
for CO and from 84 to 46 kJ mol-' for H,. The integral heats were 126 and 
62 kJ mol-', respectively. A comparison of the integral heats on the samples 
discussed above would lead one to the conclusion that adsorption of H, on 
Ir/SiO, is weaker than that on Pt/SiO, by 10 kJ mol-'; however, the initial 
differential heat of adsorption is approximately the same. 
Aukett (227) 
found that a significant fraction of the surface of a 6.3 wt% 
Pt/SiO, catalyst reduced at 673 K was energetically homogeneous. The dif- 
ferential heats of adsorption of CO and H, at 298 K were higher than in the 
previous study and decreased with coverage from 160 to 100 kJ mol-' and 
from 110 to 80 kK mol-', respectively. The integrals heats for the same range 
of adsorption coverages were 145 kJ mol-' for CO and 96 kJ mol-' for H,. 
Guerrero and co-workers (228) 
studied the influence of dispersion on the 
heats of adsorption of H, and CO over 0.5 wt% Pd/Al,O, catalysts at 323 K. 
An increase in Pd dispersion from 26 to 97% increased the differential heat 
224 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
of H2 
adsorption at low to intermediate coverages from 110 to 125 kJ mol-'. 
Conversely, the dispersion increase did not seem to produce any measurable 
change on the heat of CO adsorption, giving approximately the same value 
of about 140 kJ mol-'. Similar values were found for CO adsorption on Ru 
supported over graphitized carbon black (229). 
The increase in heat of H2 
adsorption was attributed to a different proportion of edges and crystalline 
planes in the smaller Pd crystallites. No explanation for the CO results was 
given. 
Efremov et al. (230) 
determined differential heats of CO adsorption on Pt, 
Pd, Rh, and Ir supported on y-Alz03 at 298 K after reduction at 773 K. The 
initial heats on all the samples were similar and within the range of 118 to 
125 kJ mol-'. The dependence of the heat on coverage, however, was signif- 
icantly different among the different specimens. For Ir/y-Al,O, the differ- 
ential heat of adsorption was approximately constant at 118 kJ mol-' from 
8 
= 
0.05 to 0.8, whereas for Pd/y-A1203 
it decreased linearly from 125 kJ mol- ' 
at 8 = 
0.05 to 65 kJ mol-' at 0 = 
0.85. The differential heat of adsorption on 
Pt/y-Al,O, decreased linearly from 125 kJ mol-' at 8=0.05 to 60 kJ mol-' 
at 8 = 
0.5 and remained at this value to 8 = 
0.8. The surface of the Rh cat- 
alyst was more heterogeneous, with the heat decreasing from 120 kJ mol-' 
to a plateau at 114 kJ mol-' up to 0 = 0.4, before decreasing linearly to 
60 kJ mol-'. Infrared spectroscopy of CO adsorbed on the samples and sub- 
sequent TPD studies confirmed the surface heterogeneity of the Pt, Pd, and 
Rh catalysts and the homogeneity of the Ir sample. 
Gelin and co-workers (96) used adsorption microcalorimetry at 296 and 
423 K and IR spectroscopy to study the adsorption of CO on Ir supported 
on NaY zerolite reduced from 383 to 923 K and on Ir supported on silica. 
The results at 296 K showed that the differential heat of adsorption increased 
slightly with an increase in reduction temperature (initial values increased 
from 120 to 140 kJ mol-l). This result was attributed to differences in the 
average particle size which increased with the reduction temperature. The 
initial differential heat of adsorption on Ir/SiO, was 148 kJ mol-'. At 423 K 
the differential heat of adsorption on the sample reduced at low temperature 
was nearly constant at 140 kJ mol-' for the entire range of surface coverage 
studied. 
Topsae and co-workers (231) 
studied calorimetrically the adsorption of 
CO at 303 K on MgO-supported Fe and on two unsupported Fe ammonia 
synthesis catalysts. These catalysts displayed quite heterogeneous site energy 
distributions. For example, the differential heat of adsorption on the Fe/MgO 
catalyst decreased from about 110 kJ mol-' to a large plateau at 80 kJ mol-' 
before decreasing abruptly to near 40 kJ mol-'. It was found that the amount 
of weakly held CO increased with decreasing Fe particle size. The authors 
used IR spectroscopy to demonstrate that the differences in the site energy 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
225 
distribution were caused by a change in the fraction of sites adsorbing CO 
with specific heats of adsorption rather than a change in those heats levels. 
Fubini et al. (123) 
studied the adsorption of CO on reduced and oxidized 
Cu/ZnO catalysts. The differential heat for the reduced catalyst decreased 
rapidly with coverage from 120 to 40 kJ mol-' and remained constant at that 
value. The site energy distribution on the oxidized sample showed a maxi- 
mum concentration at about 90 kJ mol-' and no sites with differential heats 
lower than 65 kJ mol-'. The authors proposed that adsorption microcalo- 
rimetry is a good probe for the detection of different adsorption sites, namely, 
Cuo and Cu'. 
Poleski and co-workers (232) 
measured differential heats of H, adsorp- 
tion on Co- and Ni-promoted Mo catalysts at 483 and 593 K. Increasing the 
ratio Co/Mo from 0 to 0.02 increased the heat of H, adsorption from 15 
to 100 kJ mol-'. The heat remained high to a Co/Mo ratio of about 0.5, 
whereas it decreased at higher ratios. The Ni-containing Mo catalysts showed 
qualitatively similar behavior. 
Figure 11 shows the results of Sharma and Dumesic (233) 
obtained by 
measuring differential heats of H, adsorption at 390 K on a series of sup- 
ported Pt samples. The initial heat of adsorption is equal to about 90 kJ/mol 
for Pt/K-L zeolite, Pt/NaY zeolite, and Pt/silica. In contrast, the initial 
heat is equal to about 105 kJ mol-' on Pt/Ba-L zeolite. It should also be 
noted that the heat of H, adsorption decreases at high coverages to nearly 
1 
20 
SUDDO~~: 
0 0 
0.1 
0.2 
0.3 
0.4 
Coverage (pmol H&mol Pt) 
5 
FIG. 
11. Differential 
heat of H, 
adsorption at 390 K on Pt supported on Ba-L zeolite, SO,, 
K-L zeolite. and NaY zeolite. (Adapted 
from Ref. 233.) 
226 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
support: 
200 ] 
1 
0 
0.1 
0.2 
0.3 
0.4 
0.5 
Coverage (pmol COlKmol Pt) 
6 
FIG. 
12. Dilferential heat of CO adsorption at 390 K on PI supported on Ba-L zeolite, SiO,, 
K-L 
zeolite, and NaY zeolite. (Adapted from Ref. 233.) 
zero on Pt/silica, whereas the heat reaches a plateau near 25 kJ mol-' on the 
Pt/zeolite catalysts. These authors also measured the differential heat of CO 
adsorption at 390 K on the same supported Pt samples. The results of these 
studies are presented in Fig. 12. Analogous to the behavior of H, adsorp- 
tion, the initial heat of CO adsorption is nearly the same (i.e., 145 kJ mol-') 
for Pt/K-L zeolite, Pt/NaY zeolite, and Pt/silica, whereas it is higher 
(160 kJ mol-') for Pt/Ba-L zeolite. It is also apparent that the heat of CO 
adsorption decreases at high coverages to nearly zero on Pt/silica, whereas 
the heat reaches a plateau near 40 kJ mol-' on the Pt/zeolite catalysts. 
The above results indicate that significant differences in the heats of H, 
and CO adsorption on Pt can be achieved by altering the exchange cation 
(Ba) of the zeolite support. Moreover, microcalorimetry can be used to dis- 
tinguish different adsorption heats on Pt at different coverages. For exam- 
ple, essentially all samples show an initially high heat of adsorption, followed 
by a plateau of lower heat at moderate surface coverages. In addition, the 
plots of differential heat versus coverage show adsorption of H, and CO on 
the zeolite support at high coverages. It is interesting that the adsorption of 
H, on the zeolite is facilitated by the presence of Pt since the plateau at high 
coverages near 25 kJ mol-' on the Pt/zeolite catalysts did not appear for H, 
adsorption on the same zeolite supports in the absence of Pt. 
The lack of systematic studies complicates the comparison o
f
 the results 
discussed above. The few studies available for H, adsorption suggest that 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
227 
the initial heats range between 80 and 125 kJ mol-'. Adsorption of CO 
seems to produce initial differential heats between 100 and 160 kJ mol-'. The 
strength of the adsorption appears to follow the order Ir > 
Pd > 
Pt > 
Rh > 
Co. 
Two of the parameters which are required for surface thermodynamic 
and kinetic constants in metal catalysis are the strength of atomic hydrogen 
bonded to the surface of a metal, EH, and the strength of carbon-metal 
single bonds between hydrocarbon fragments and the surface, E,. These 
parameters can be estimated from heats of adsorption of H, and CO, re- 
spectively (226). 
The values of EH 
can be obtained directly from the heat of 
hydrogen adsorption, since the adsorption of one molecule of H, involves 
the rupture of the H-H 
bond and the formation of two hydrogen-metal 
bonds. To estimate E ,  we may use the bond order conservation theory of 
Shustorovich (235). 
B. OXYGEN 
ADSORPTION 
A summary of results obtained in studies o
f
 0, adsorption on supported 
and unsupported metals is given in Table XXVIII. In some of these studies 
Phillips et al. measured differential heats of oxygen adsorption on coal char 
at 298 and 345 K (72. 
236) and on graphite-supported Fe, Rh, and Fe/Rh 
bimetallic catalysts at 303 K (237-239). Increasing the adsorption tempera- 
ture increased the initial heat of adsorption on the coal char from 335 to 
420 kJ mol-'. A possible explanation for this behavior might be that adsorp- 
tion was not specific at the lower temperature, with oxygen adsorbing on both 
strong and weaker sites. The changes in the surface structure of the carbon 
resulting from pretreatments in nitric acid and potassium permanganate were 
also studied. The treatment in nitric acid decreased the initial heat of 0, 
adsorption from 330 kJ mol-' for the untreated sample to 190 kJ mol-' and 
generated a peak at about 270 kJ mol-'. Adsorption on this sample was de- 
scribed with a kinetics controlled, nonequilibrium model. In contrast, the 
KMnO, treatment increased both the initial differential heat to 420 kJ mol-' 
and the amount of O2 
adsorbed to more than twice the adsorption capacity 
of the original sample. For this sample the authors suggested that O2 
adsorp- 
tion was an equilibrium process. 
An interesting application of adsorption microcalorimetry was used by 
these researchers to examine changes in adsorption behavior of graphite- 
supported iron/rhodium bimetallic catalysts as a function of oxidation and 
reduction treatments. The differential heat of oxygen adsorption on the 
bimetallic catalysts after various treatments was compared to the values 
obtained for the monometallic materials to determine the relative contribu- 
tions to the total adsorption. Reduction at 673 K produced an alloy whose 
228 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE XXVIll 
Calorimetric Measurements o
f
 0, 
Adsorption at 300 K on Different Catalysts" 
Metal 
Reduction 
'?initial 
qmax 
qrinv1 
"final 
Catalyst 
loading 
temperature (K) 
(kJ mol-') 
(kJ mol-I) 
(kJ mol-l) 
(pmol g-l) 
Ref. 
Fe/C 
Rh/C 
5.15 
5.0 
673 
473 
673 
673 
373' 
1173 
586 
375 
375 
540 
585 
3 
30 
580 I 
335 s 
None 
400s 
460 I 
None 
20 
20 
20 
20 
20 
40 
62 
23 
10 
25 
45 
I75 
237,2 
237.2 
237,i 
23 7 
23 7 
72. 
2. 
FeRh/C 
5.4h 
Coal 
Coal 
Coal 
D
Y
 
chard 
char' 
charr 
Y 
1173 
190 
270 S 
40 
200 
236 
I173 
420 
310 S 
4
0
 
3 
30 
236 
650 
1050 
500 
1050 
24 I 
24 I 
ns.Q 
ns.Q 
220 
700 
960 I 
1060 L 
~~ 
Metal loading in wtx. 
Total metal loading. The active phase was a bcc alloy phase with 50/50 Fe/Rh atomic ratio. 
The sample was oxidized at 473 K followed by reduction at 373 K. 
A commercial (Ambersorb 
XE-340 from Rohm and Haas) high surface area nongraphitic carbon. 
HN0,-treated Ambersorb. 
KMn0,-treated Ambersorb. 
n.s., Not specified. 
surface behaved like neither iron nor rhodium, with differential heats of 
adsorption between those values of the monometallic samples. The integral 
heat of adsorption for the 1:l Fe:Rh bimetallic catalyst was equal to the 
average of the two monometallic catalysts. An oxidation treatment at 473 K 
followed by reduction at 373 K gave differential heats of adsorption that 
were essentially equal to those found for adsorption on Fe/Grafoil, suggest- 
ing that this treatment induced segregation of the two metal species with an 
iron-enriched surface. The process appeared to be reversible except for a de- 
crease in the adsorption capacity caused by particle sintering. 
The passivation by oxygen of a commercial ammonia synthesis 
catalyst was 
studied with adsorption microcalorimetry by Tsarev and co-workers (240). 
Two types of adsorbed oxygen at 293 K were found to participate in the for- 
mation of a passivating layer. One type was characterized by differential 
heats of adsorption near 420 kJ mol-' that were close to the heat of iron 
oxidation and which were independent of surface coverage for several mono- 
layers. The other form was obtained after a large dose, sufficient for coverage 
of the entire metal surface with a molecular monolayer. Subsequent adsorp- 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
229 
tion of small doses produced lower heats of adsorption which increased to 
the initial high value. It was suggested that the second form of adsorbed oxy- 
gen was an intermediate form which was subsequently replaced by a stronger 
bound form as oxygen diffused into the catalyst bulk. 
Cerny and Kovar (241) 
determined the heat of 0, 
interaction with vacuum- 
evaporated films of dysprosium and yttrium at room temperature. These 
metals yielded high heats of adsorption of 960 and 1060 kJ mol-', respec- 
tively. It was suggested that the oxygen molecules undergo dissociative ad- 
sorption on the surface and penetrate into the subsurface, where they form 
strong bonds to the metal. 
C. HYDROCARBON 
ADSORPTION 
The strength of interaction of hydrocarbons with metallic surfaces serves 
as a probe to investigate the role of desorption and adsorption of these 
species in a variety of catalytic reactions (Table XXIX). Ostrovskii and 
Medvedkova (242) used calorimetry and gas chromatography to measure 
heats of adsorption of C4-C8 hydrocarbons over Co before and after use in 
Fischer-Tropsch synthesis. For the fresh samples, the adsorption of aliphatic 
hydrocarbons was reversible, and the initial heat of adsorption increased 
with increasing chain length of the adsorbate. It appeared that the saturated 
hydrocarbons were adsorbed with the C-C 
bond axis parallel to the surface, 
and the contributions from the CH, and CH, groups were calculated as 
qCH, 
= -4.63 and qCH2 
= 17.8 kJ mol-'. With these values, the experimental 
initial heats o
f
 adsorption of C4 to C8 aliphatic hydrocarbons were accu- 
rately fitted. Adsorption of olefins, on the other hand, was partially irrevers- 
ible at 298 K and gave higher differential heats of adsorption. For example, 
the initial heat for hexene was approximately four times its heat of conden- 
sation, whereas the corresponding value for hexane was about twice the heat 
of condensation. The difference 
in adsorption strength between saturated and 
unsaturated hydrocarbons was suggested to be responsible for the preferen- 
tial formation of saturated hydrocarbons during Fischer-Tropsch synthesis. 
The measured differential heats of adsorption on the used sample were close 
to the heat of condensation of the corresponding hydrocarbons, apparently 
because the surface was covered by a liquidlike film of hydrocarbons after 
Fischer-Tropsch synthesis. 
Cerny and co-workers measured calorimetrically heats of hydrocarbon 
adsorption on Pt (243) 
and Dy (244) films at room temperature. The heats 
of adsorption on Pt were significantly higher than those found in the pre- 
vious study and increased in the order methane z 
ethylene < 
propylene < 
acetylene z 
methylacetylene < allene < cyclopropane z 
ethane c 
propane. 
230 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
TABLE XXIX 
Calorimetric hteasurements oj' Hydrocarbon Adsorption 
of 300 K on Diflerent Metal Culalysfs 
Catalyst 
'linitial 
Adsorbate 
(kJ 
mol-I) 
~ 
~~ 
PI 
Pd/AI,O," 
Pd/Al,O,* 
Pt/AI,O,E 
Pt/Al,O,d 
Co 
D
Y
 
Acetylene 
Methylacetylene 
Ethylene 
Propylene 
Allene 
Cyclopropane 
Methane 
Ethane 
Propane 
Propylene 
Propyne 
Propylene 
Propyne 
Propyne 
Propyne 
n-Hexane 
I-Hexene 
Propylene 
187 
186 
148 
177 
196 
218 
151 
220 
266 
125 
215 
170 
275 
155 
210 
I20 
60 
650 
qmsr 
(kJ 
mo1-l) 
185 I 
I86 1 
None 
I60 S 
195 S 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
270 S 
None 
None 
None 
None 
ns.' 
60 
42 
50 
32 
100 
16 
100 
16 
1
3
0
 
18 
50 
14 
25 
4 
100 
5 
so 
6 
45 
0 
z 
1 .o 
I10 
0 z 
1.0 
60 
0 z 
1.0 
I60 
0 z 
0.8 
50 
0 
z 
1.0 
70 
u z 
0.95 
45 
28 
35 
18 
I05 
I10 
Ref. 
243 
243 
243 
243 
243 
243 
243 
243 
243 
2% 
228 
228 
228 
2% 
228 
242 
242 
244 
- 
Pd dispersion of 26':$, reduction temperature 523 K. 
Pd dispersion of 97%, 
reduction temperature 523 K. 
Pt dispersion of 7004, reduction temperature 523 K. 
ns.. Not specified. 
' 
Pt dispersion of 30,;. reduction temperature 523 K. 
Different modes of adsorption were proposed to explain the calorimetric 
results including dehydrogenation for methane and cracking and partial 
dehydrogenation for ethane and propane. A thermochemical cycle was used 
to estimate the number of hydrogen atoms dissociated from the methane 
molecule. These calculations indicated that CH3 and CH, were the most 
probable surface species. A nondissociative adsorption mechanism, with the 
formation of a vinylidene species bonded perpendicular to the surface, was 
consistent with the heats measured for acetylene, methylacetylene, and allene. 
Partial dehydrogenation of the alkanes and cyclopropane was suggested to 
account for the observed adsorption behavior of these molecules. Thermo- 
chemical calculations using previously determined heats of adsorption of 
H, (245), 
CO (234), 
and 0, (241), 
in combination with dissociation energies 
for the species involved, indicated that on dysprosium both propylene and 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
23 
1 
acetylene appear to be completely dissociated, whereas for methane the de- 
gree of dissociation decreased with increasing coverage. 
Guerrero et al. (228) 
studied the effect of dispersion on the heat of adsorp- 
tion of propyne on Al,O,-supported Pd and Pt catalysts and of propylene 
adsorption on Al,O,-supported Pt at 323 K. In all cases, the heats of adsorp- 
tion were higher on the catalysts with the highest dispersion. The difference 
was especially large for the adsorption of propyne on Pd/AI2O3 
catalysts, 
giving heats 50% higher for the high dispersion catalyst. A different propor- 
tion of edges and crystalline planes of each type on samples with different 
crystallite size was given as an explanation for the changes in heat of adsorp- 
tion with dispersion. 
IX. Catalytic Applications 
CATALYTIC 
ACTIVITY 
A. CORRELATION 
BETWEEN ADSORPTION 
HEAT 
AND 
A principal motivation for the study of probe molecule adsorption on 
catalyst surfaces is to develop correlations of catalyst surface properties with 
catalytic behavior. In addition, measurements of the heats of adsorption of 
probe molecules can provide essential information about reaction mecha- 
nisms if the probe molecules are chosen to resemble possible reaction inter- 
mediates of the catalytic cycle. 
Surface sites may exist in different configurations, and this typically leads 
to a distribution of adsorption strengths. Among the adsorption sites for a 
particular reaction there may be a certain number of sites with adequate 
strength that possess the ability to activate the adsorbed molecule and to 
form a reactive intermediate (45). In addition, there may be surface sites 
which either are too weak to activate the reactants or are too strong, leading 
to strongly held species which block and deactivate these sites or causing ex- 
cessive fragmentation of reactant or products. Therefore, the determination 
of the site strength distributions is of fundamental importance in understand- 
ing the catalytic properties of solid materials. The following is a discussion 
of research in which correlations between heats of adsorption and catalytic 
activity have been found. 
In Section V it was shown that the Si/AI ratio has a strong influence o 
the acidic properties of zeolites. Dealumination, as discussed previously, is 
a widely used means of changing the acid character of zeolite catalysts. Such 
changes in the acid strength distribution are manifested as changes in cata- 
lytic behavior. For example, dealumination of HY zeolites increased the 
catalytic activity for cumene cracking at 573 K, reaching a maximum at a 
232 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
SiO2/AI2O3 
ratio of around 7.4. Further removal of Al reduced both the 
catalytic activity and the acidity of the catalysts (35, 
78). The IR spectra of 
pyridine adsorbed on HY showed that the number of Brgnsted sites was 
highest for the zeolite with the highest activity. In the cracking reaction of 
cumene, carbenium ions are believed to be formed on the BrBnsted acid sites 
of the catalyst (134). A site having stronger acidity should show higher ac- 
tivity for the formation of carbenium ions and consequently show a higher 
cracking ability. The increase in catalytic activity at a low degree of dealu- 
mination seems to be due to elimination of weak acid sites and an increase 
in the concentration of effective, stronger Brdnsted sites associated with the 
residual Al atoms. It has been suggested that acid sites associated with four- or 
six-membered rings containing a single A
1
 atom may be stronger than those 
associated with rings containing two or more Al tetrahedra (78). 
Dealumina- 
tion seems to convert some of the rings containing two or more Al atoms into 
rings containing a single A10, tetrahedron, thereby increasing the number of 
strong acid sites. The maximum number of these strong sites is formed at the 
same Si/AI ratio as the maximum in catalytic activity. Further dealumination 
eliminates additional AIO, tetrahedra, and the acidity as well as the activity 
decrease because of a reduction in the number of effective Bransted sites. 
We should note that the calorimetric results obtained in studies at room 
temperature did not correlate with the catalytic activity at 573 K. Samples 
with high activity showed essentially the same values of heat of adsorption 
of NH3 as did samples that showed considerably lower activity. In other 
cases, samples with lower activity showed higher heats than the sample with 
highest activity. On the other hand, more recent studies (158) 
demonstrated 
that the differential heat of adsorption of NH3 
at 473 K on the same samples 
displayed the same trend as seen for the catalytic cracking at 523 K. More- 
over, the cracking activity agreed better with the acidity determined by ad- 
sorption of pyridine at 473 K. Thus, when attempting to correlate the activity 
for an acid-catalyzed reaction with the surface acidity, it is advisable to study 
the adsorption process at the temperature used for the catalytic reaction, and 
the basic molecule used should have a similar size to that of the reactants and 
should interact selectively with the active sites. 
In a different study, Masuda et al. 
(140) 
found two different linear relation- 
ships between the activity for cumene cracking at 623 K and the total acidity 
as determined from calorimetric measurement o
f
 NH, adsorption at room 
temperature. One correlation was for amorphous silica-alumina with dif- 
ferent loadings and treatments, and the other correlation was for zeolitic 
silica-alumina with similar loadings and treatments. Other catalysts did not 
follow these correlations. The apparent lack of correlation between the dif- 
ferent sets of catalysts is probably due to the fact that the total acidity mea- 
sured includes both active and nonactive sites. It is likely that for a set of 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
233 
similar catalysts the number of active sites will be proportional to the total 
acidity, and that is why similar catalysts are related by a single correlation. 
Klyachko et al. (163, 
164) calculated the specific catalytic activity of acid 
sites on zeolites by the method of regional rates suggested by Yoneda (246). 
The authors used the acidity distributions of a series of H-, Na- and dealu- 
minized mordenites, ZSM-5 zeolites, and SVK zeolites, obtained from dif- 
ferential heats of ammonia adsorption at 573 K, to correlate the activity of 
these catalysts toward the cracking of n-octane at 673 K and the isomeriza- 
tion of o-xylene at 523 K. In previous publications (89,156), 
the authors used 
IR spectroscopy and microcalorimetry to assign ranges of heats of ammonia 
adsorption for Bransted and Lewis acid sites. They found four different types 
of Bransted sites with heats of 120, 130, 140, and 150 kJ mol-', whereas 
Lewis sites gave heats higher than 170 kJ mol-'. The kinetic calculations 
showed that sites with heats of 150 kJ mol-' were the most active for both 
cracking of n-octane and isomerization of o-xylene, whereas the Lewis acid 
sites were inactive for cracking and were 40% less active than the most active 
Bransted sites for isomerization. 
This research group also studied the catalytic activity and selectivity for 
xylene isomerization and disproportionation on modernites decationated to 
different degrees (90). 
They found that sites with heats of ammonia adsorption 
between 120 and 150 kJ mol-' correlated well with the isomerization activity, 
but only sites with heats higher than 150 kJ mo1-' catalyzed the dispropor- 
tionation of xylene. 
Dumesic and co-workers studied the activity of isopropanol dehydration 
(247) 
on a series of silica-supported oxide catalysts as well as the acidic 
properties of these materials using IR spectroscopy and TGA of adsorbed 
pyridine (59) 
and adsorption microcalorimetry of pyridine at 473 K (18.104). 
Samples that showed only Lewis acidity were at least one to two orders of 
magnitude less active than the samples that displayed Br~nsted 
acidity. The 
activity of the latter samples increased in the order Sc3+ < 
Ga3+ 
< A13+. 
This 
is the same order found for differential heats of pyridine adsorption on the 
Br~nsted 
acid sites, and a good correlation between the heats and the activity 
was found. No correlation was found with the initial heats or for the samples 
that had only Lewis acidity. 
It is apparent from the above studies that in the case of catalysts with 
an energetically heterogeneous surface the fraction of the surface which 
participates in the reaction can be probed from measurements of the adsorp- 
tion heat distribution. Correlation between catalytic properties and the bond 
energy between the surface and probe molecules may then be sought. Gener- 
ally, such studies will be most informative if the probe molecules are chosen 
to have chemical properties similar to those species that are believed to 
participate in the rate-determining or slow steps of the catalytic mechanism. 
234 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A
.
 DUMESIC 
B. CATALYST 
DEACTIVATION/TREATMENT 
Calorimetric studies of adsorption sequences may give information on 
the deactivation of catalysts caused by strongly adsorbed reaction inter- 
mediates or products. Adsorption of probe molecules may be carried out 
on fresh and used catalysts to titrate the decrease in the number of sites 
after reaction. For example, the acid strength distribution of H-mordenite, 
H-offretite, and HZSM-5 changed significantly after their use as catalysts in 
methanol conversion at 650 K (3, 
168). The acidity of the used catalysts was 
considerably lower than that of the fresh materials owing to coke deposition. 
The strongest acid sites on the mordenite and offretite surfaces disappeared 
or decreased in strength. This was confirmed by the apppearance in the acid 
strength distribution of small, broad peaks at approximately 125 kJ mol-' 
for mordenite and at about 130 kJ mol-' for offretite, whereas the distribu- 
tion for the fresh catalysts showed sharp peaks at about 170 and 155 kJ mol-', 
respectively. For the used ZSM-5 catalyst, a decrease in the number of strong 
acid sites was observed, but a significant number of these sites remained 
since no activity decrease was found. It was concluded that only a fraction of 
the acid sites titrated by ammonia was necessary to maintain high catalytic 
activity and that the different behavior of mordenite and ZSM-5 zeolite during 
the same catalytic reaction was probably the result of their different pore 
structure. The shape-selective restrictions of ZSM-5 prevents the coking of 
the active sites for methanol conversion. 
The calibration and application of a heat flux DSC in the study of hetero- 
geneous reactions has been discussed in the literature (248). 
The possibilities 
and limitations of this technique were demonstrated for methanation and 
methanol synthesis on Cu/ZnO catalysts. More recently, Rejai and Gonzalez 
(222, 223) used a DSC to investigate the reduction of PtO,, PtCI,, and 
H,PtCI,, the decomposition of calcium oxalate, and the formation of sup- 
ported Pt-Ru bimetallic catalysts. The results were consistent with values 
based on standard enthalpies o
f
 formation reported in the literature. This 
work illustrates the power of calorimetry for studying the important pro- 
cesses involved in catalyst preparation and treatment. 
C. REACTION 
MECHANISMS 
Calorimetry can help elucidate the mechanisms of heterogeneously cata- 
lyzed reactions (1, 
3). Possible reaction steps can be studied in the calori- 
meter by means of successive 
adsorption sequences, whereas reaction mecha- 
nisms, including different series of steps, can be tested in thermochemical 
cycles. However, the following limitations of the approach should be noted 
(3): 
(1) adsorption sequences only involve irreversibly adsorbed species, since 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
235 
one reactant in the gas phase is evacuated before the next is introduced; and 
(2) 
mixtures of gases may not behave like individual gases. As will be shown 
below, a flow microcalorimetric-gas chromatographic technique or a com- 
bination of both techniques can eliminate these limitations and enhance the 
usefulness of microcalorimetric measurements to help understand catalytic 
reaction mechanisms. 
Vedrine et al. (93) 
investigated the possible presence of C2H4 as an inter- 
mediate in methanol conversion over HZSM-5 zeolites. The adsorption of 
ammonia at 416 K was studied calorimetrically after CzH4, C2H4 plus 
CH,OH, or CH,OH had reacted for 20 min and had been evacuated at 
673 K. All acid sites stronger than about 80 kJ mol-' disappeared after reac- 
tion with C2H4, whereas strong acid sites were still accessible after CH,OH 
or C2H4 plus CH,OH reactions. This was presumably due to the formation 
of polymeric residues when C2H4 was used alone, which filled the channels. 
This also explained the low activity of ZSM-5 zeolite for the C2H, conver- 
sion reaction. These findings might lead to the conclusion that C,H4 was not 
a reactive intermediate in the methanol conversion reaction. However, the 
calorimetric results after reaction of C2H4 
and CH30H 
indicated that strong 
acid sites were still available, and catalytic results showed that C2H4 may 
well be an intermediate compound. The presence of methanol in the feed 
allowed the reaction to proceed to higher hydrocarbons rather than to catalyst 
deactivation by the formation of polymeric residues which fill the channels. 
Bondareva and co-workers used a flow technique to measure heats of 
adsorption of reactants and products as well as heats of interaction and 
kinetics of reaction mixtures for the selective oxidation of propylene to 
acrolein (249) and acrolein to acrylic acid (250, 251) on multicomponent 
oxdide catalysts. The adsorbates were dosed periodically in pulses, and the 
inlet and outlet compositions were measured chromatographically. Using this 
information and the thermogram peak shapes, these researchers could deter- 
mine whether a given peak was due to adsorption, adsorption with partial 
desorption, or adsorption with partial adsorbate conversion (250). 
The bond 
energy of oxygen to the surface was determined using a thermochemical 
cycle, involving the microcalorimetric and kinetic data for the heterogeneous 
reaction and the thermodynamic data for the homogeneous reaction. For 
the oxidation of propylene, the oxygen bond energy increased from 193 to 
276 kJ mol-' as the degree of reduction of the catalyst increases. Under 
steady-state conditions the oxygen bond energy was 268-276 kJ mol- ', 
which is close to the values determined by direct oxygen adsorption. The 
results indicated that the presence of various surface compounds on the 
catalysts can change the oxygen bond strength significantly. 
The same technique was applied for the oxidation of acrolein to acrylic 
acid on V-Mo and V-Mo-Cu catalysts, but it could not be applied to 
236 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
V-Mo-P and V-Mo-Cs catalysts (251). The V-Mo-P catalysts are not 
selective; therefore, at least two reaction pathways are important over this 
catalyst, 
and sufficient 
data were not available to characterize both pathways. 
The V-Mo-Cs catalysts showed low activity, and the adsorption of acrylic 
acid was irreversible, 
producing large errors in the determination of the heat 
effects of the reaction. 
Krivanek et al. (252) studied the oxidation of 1-butene to CO,. Calori- 
metrically measured heats of adsorption and desorption of 1-butene and 
isobutene and adsorption of 0, on molybdate catalysts between 309 and 
423 K were used to perform thermochemical calculations to verify if the 
complete oxidation of 1-butene 
or isobutene was occurring on these catalysts. 
In this study, the heats of adsorption or desorption of CO,, butadiene, 
methyl ethyl ketone, xylene, or H,O (the main products of the reaction) were 
not measured directly. Instead, the products were desorbed and the heat of 
desorption was measured. The qualitative composition of the desorbate was 
investigated 
with mass spectrometry. 
A selectivity 
difference was found for the 
interaction of 1-butene with the various catalysts. 
Stradella (212) 
studied the heterogeneous oxidation of carbon monoxide 
on Bi203 
- 
MOO, by measuring the differential heats of adsorption of CO 
and CO, and determining heats and thermokinetics for CO-0, mixtures. 
Vass and Budrugeac (253) 
measured differential heats of adsorption of 0, 
on 
silver powder and of CO and CO, interactions with preadsorbed oxygen on 
silver at room temperature using an isoperibol calorimeter. From thermo- 
chemical calculations using the measured heats o
f
 interaction and the homo- 
geneous heat of CO oxidation, the authors concluded that the results were 
consistent 
with a mechanism involving 
the formation of adsorbed C03 
during 
CO and CO, interactions with preadsorbed oxygen on the surface of silver. 
X. Conclusions 
Various applications of adsorption calorimetry in the study of hetero- 
geneous 
catalysis 
have been presented in this review. It has been seen that this 
technique can provide valuable information about the thermodynamic and 
kinetic properties of the catalyst surface sites. In cases where the adsorbed 
species reach thermodynamic equilibrium with the catalyst, the differential 
heat of adsorption versus coverage is a measure of the number and strength 
of the various surface sites, 
whereas the corresponding entropy of adsorption 
is a probe of the mobility of the adsorbed species on these surface sites. 
The thermokinetic parameter provides information about the rates of sur- 
face processes. This information is particularly useful in those processes for 
which the above enthalpic and entropic measurements have been made. 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
231 
Importantly, the combination of such measurements allows correlations to 
be sought between surface thermodynamic and kinetic properties. We anti- 
cipate that this approach will be a growing application of microcalorimetry 
in heterogeneous catalysis. 
For most effective utilization in heterogeneous catalysis research, adsorp- 
tion microcalorimetry must be used in combination with other techniques 
which probe the nature of the surface-adsorbed species. In the case of acidity 
studies, for example, IR spectroscopy is needed to identify which regions of 
the acid strength distribution correspond to Lewis verus Brgbnsted acid sites. 
As the application of adsorption microcalorimetry in heterogeneous catalysis 
evolves from studies involving primarily probe molecules to studies involving 
more reactive molecules, 
it will become even more important to combine these 
calorimetric studies with surface spectroscopic investigations. 
Finally, we note that new catalytic materials are often identified by 
analogies with existing catalysts. The quantification of correlations between 
various catalysts, therefore, is an important aspect in the search for new 
catalysts (254). We suggest that adsorption microcalorimetry can play an 
important role in the formulation of such correlations by providing quantita- 
tive information about the bonding characteristics of the surface sites. Some 
initial success of this approach has been presented in this review. We hope 
that this challenging research direction will go and become a significant 
application of adsorption microcalorimetry in heterogeneous catalysis. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
The authors thank Sanjay Sharma, Dan Chen, and Dr. Brent Handy for helpful discussions 
and valuable comments on the manuscript. We acknowledge the support of the University of 
Puerto Rico- Mayaguez Campus for N.C.M. 
REFERENCES 
I .  Gravelle, P. C., in “Proceedings of the Fifth International Congress on Catalysis” 
2. Gravelle, P. C., Adu. Catal. 
22, 191 (1972). 
3. Gravelle, P. C., Thermochim. Actu %
,
 365 (1985). 
4. Della Gatta, G., Thermochim. Acta %
,
 349 (1985). 
5. Everett, D. H., Trans. 
Faruday Soc. 46,453,942,957 (1950). 
6. Everett, D. H., Pure Appl. Chem. 31, 579 (1972). 
7. Hill, T. L., J. Chem. Phys. 17, 520 (1949). 
8. Hill, T. L., J. Chem. Phys. 18,246 (1950). 
9. Hill, T. L., Ado. Catal. 
4,212 (1952). 
(J. W. Hightower, ed.), 
Vol. I, p. 65. North-Holland Publ., Amsterdam, 1973. 
IO. Cerny, S., and Ponec, V., Catal. 
Rev. 2,249 (1968). 
I I .  Rouquirol, F., Rouqutrol, J., Della Gatta, G., and Letoquart, C., Thermochim. Acta 39, 
12. Garrone, E., Rouquerol, F., Fubini, B., and Della Gatta, G., J. Chim. Phys. 76, 528 (1979). 
15 I( 1980). 
238 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
13. Garrone, E., Ghiotti, G., Giamello, E., and Fubini, B., J. Chem. Soc.. Faraday Trans. I77, 
14. Dole, M., “Introduction to Statistical Thermodynamics.” Prentice-Hall, New York. 1954. 
15. Della Gatta, G., Fubini, B., and Antonione, C., J .  Chim. Phys. 72, 66 (1975). 
16. Langmuir, 1.,J. 
Am. Chem. Soc. 4
0
,
 
1361 (1918). 
17. K1yachko.A. L.. Kinet. Katal. 19, 1218(1978). 
18. Cardona-Martinez, N., Ph.D. Thesis, University of Wisconsin-Madison 
(1989). 
19. Cardona-Martinez, N., and Dumesic, J. A,, J. Catal. 125,427 (1990). 
20. Hsieh, P. Y., J. Catal. 2,211 (1963). 
21. Somorjai, G. A,, “Principles of Surface Chemistry.” Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New 
22. Tsotsis, T. T., Sane, R. C., Webster, 1. A., and Goddard, J. D., J. Catal. 101,416 (1986). 
23. Somorjai, G. A., “Chemistry in Two Dimensions.” Cornell Univ. Press, Ithaca, New York, 
24. Boudart, M., 
and Djkga-Mariadassou, G., “Kinetics of Heterogeneous Catalytic 
25. Cvetanovic, R. J., and Amenomiya, Y., Adu. Catal. 17, 103 (1967). 
26. Ceckiewicz, S.. and Kozik, M., SurJ Sci. 110,491 (1981). 
27. Falconer, J. L., and Schwarz, J. A., Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 25, 141 (1983). 
28. Konvalinka, J. A., Scholten, J. J. F., and Rasser, J. C., J. Catal. 
48, 365 (1977). 
29. Ibok, E. E., and Ollis, D. F.. J. C a r d  66, 391 (1980). 
30. Jones, D. M., and Griffin, G. L., J .  Catal. 80,40 
(1983). 
31. Rieck, J. S., and Bell, A. T., J. Catal. 
85, 143 (1984). 
32. Wahba, M., and Kernball, C., Trans. 
Faraday Soc. 49, 1351 (1953). 
33. Stone, F. S., 
and Whalley, L., J. Caral. 8, 173 (1967). 
34. Gravelle, P. C., Catal. 
Rev.-Sci. Eng. 16, 37 (1977). 
35. Tsutsumi, K., Koh, H. 
Q., 
Hagiwara, S., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 48,3576 
36. Klyachko-Gurvich, A. L., Khudiev, A. T., and Rubinshtein, A. M., lzu. Akad. Nauk SSSR. 
37. Rouquerol, J., Partyka, S., and Rouqukrol, F., J. Chem. Soc.. Faraday Trans. 1 73, 306 
38. Rouquerol, J
.
,
 Thermochim. Acta 96, 377 (1985). 
39. Calvet, E., and Prat, H., “Microcalorimetrie, Applications Physicochimiques et Biol- 
40. Tian, A,, C. 
R. Hehd. Seances Acad. Sci. 178,705 (1924). 
41. Hemminger, W., and Schonborn, K.-H., in “Proceeding of the Seventh International 
Conference on Thermal Analysis” (B. Miller, ed.), Vol. 1, p. 156. Wiley, Chichester, U.K., 
1982. 
2613 (1981). 
Jersey, 1972. 
1981. 
Reactions.” Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton, New Jersey, 1984. 
(1975). 
Ser. Khim. 3,687 (1967). 
(1977). 
ogiques.” Masson. Paris, 1956. 
42. Estrin, Ya. 1.. Kinet. Katal. 26, 373 (1985). 
43. Giamello, E., Fubini, B., Lauro, P., and Brossi, A., J .  Catal. 
87,443 (1984). 
44. Tanabe, K., in “Catalysis: Science and Technology” (J. R. Anderson and M. Boudart, eds.), 
45. Knozinger, H., Ado. Caral. 25, 184(1976). 
46. Sefcik, M. D., and Yuen, H. 
K., Thermochim. Acta 26,297 (1978). 
47. Aboul-Gheit, A. K., All-Hajjaji, M. A., Menoufly, M. F., and Abdel-Hamid, S. M., Anal. 
48. Bakshi, K. R., 
and Gavalas, G. R., 
J. Catal. 
38,312 (1975). 
49. Pires, J., Carvalho, M. B., Ribiero, F. R., and Derouane, E., Appl. Catal. 
53,273 (1989). 
50. Aboul-Gheit. A. K., and Al-Hajjaji, M. A., Anal. Lett. 20, 553 (1987). 
Vol. 2, p. 231. Springer-Verlag, 
New York, 1981. 
Lett. 19, 529 (1986). 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
239 
51. Aboul-Gheit, A. K.. J. Catal. 113,490 (1988). 
52. Aboul-Gheit, A. K., Al-Hajaji, M. A., and Summan, A. M., Thermochim. 
Actu 118,9(1987). 
53. Sadovnikov, V
.
 V., and Gefter, A. M., Kinet. Katal. 28,740 (1987). 
54. Aronson, M. T., Gorte, R. J., and Farneth, W. E., J .  Catal. 
98,434 (1986). 
55. Deeba, M., and Hall, W. K., Z .  
Phys. Chem. [N.S.] 144,85 (1985). 
56. Lalauze, R., Le Thiesse, J.-C., Pijolat, C., and Soustelle, M., J. Phys. Chem. 87, 3405 (1983). 
57. Kapustin, G. I., Brueva, T. R., Kutateladze, G. M., and Klyachko, A. R., Kinet. Kaful. 
28, 
58. Yori, J. C., Krasnogor. L. M., and Castro, A. A., React. Kinet. Catal. Left. 
32,27 (1986). 
59. Connell, G., and Dumesic, J. A., J. Catal. 105,285 (1987). 
60. Connell, G., and Dumesic, J. A,, J. Catal. 101, 103 (1986). 
61. Connell, G., and Dumesic, J. A., J. Catal. 102,216(1986). 
62. Connell, G., Ph.D. Thesis, University of Wisconsin-Madison (1985). 
63. Suarez, W., Dumesic, J. A., and Hill, C. G., Jr., J. Catal. 
94,408 (1985). 
64. Kataoka, T., and Dumesic, J. A., J. Catal. 112,66(1988). 
65. Paukshtis. E. A., and Yurchenko, E. N., Russ. Chem. Rev. (Engl. Transl.) 
52,242 (1983). 
66. Paukshtis, E. A,, Soltanov, R. I., and Yurchenko, E. N., React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 16, 93 
(1981). 
67. Paukshtis, E. A,, Soltanov, R. I., and Yurchenko, E. N., React. Kinet. Catal. Letl. 19, 105 
(1982). 
68. Laine, J., Yunes, S., Brito, J., and Andreu, P.,J. Catal. 
62, 157 (1980). 
69. Fraissard, J., in “Catalysis by Zeolites”(B. Imelik, C. Naccache, Y. Ben Taarit, J. C. Vedrine, 
70. Tsutsumi, K., Hagiwara, S., Mitani, Y., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 55,2572 
71. Kusnetsov, B. V
.
,
 
and Derkaui, A., Zh. Fiz. Khim. 57, 1314 (1983). 
72. ONeil, M., Lovrien, R., and Phillips, J., Rev. Sci. Instrum. 56,2312 (1985). 
73. Brueva, T. R., Klyachko-Gurvich, A. L., and Rubinshtein, A. M., Izu. Akad. Nauk SSSR 
74. Masuda, T., Taniguchi, H., Tsutsumi, K., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 51, 1965 
75. Taniguchi, H., Masuda, T., Tsutsumi, K., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 51, 1970 
76. Tsutsumi, K., Kajiwara, H., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 47,801 (1974). 
77. Taniguchi, H., Masuda, T., Tsutsumi, K., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 52,2195 
78. Mishin, I. V., Klyachko-Gurvich, A. L., Brueva, T. R., and Rubinshtein, A. M., IZP. Akad. 
79. Thamm, H., Stach, H., and Fiebig, W., Zeolites 3,95 (1983). 
80. Thamm, H., Zeolites 7, 341 (1987). 
81. Klyachko-Gurvich, A. L., Brueva, T. R., Mishin, I. V., Kapustin, G. I., and Rubinshtein, 
82. Auroux, A., Wierzchowski, P., and Gravelle, P. C., Thermochim. Acta 32, 165 (1979). 
83. Shannon, R. D., Staley, R. H., and Auroux, A., Zeolites 7, 301 (1987). 
84. Mitani, Y., Tsutsumi, K., 
and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 56, 1917 (1983). 
85. Tsutsumi. K., Mitani, Y., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 56, 1912 (1983). 
86. Thomas, J. M., and Thomas, W. J., “Introduction to the Principles of Heterogeneous 
87. Kapustin, G. 
I., Brueva, T. R., Klyachko, A. L., and Rubinshtein, A. M., Kinet. Katal. 22, 
759 (1987). 
G. Coudurier, and H. Praliaud, eds.), p. 343. Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1980. 
(1982). 
Ser. Khim. 12,2807 (1972). 
( 
1978). 
( 
1978). 
( 1979). 
Nauk SSSR. Ser. Khim. 8, 1739 ( I  978). 
A. M., Acta Phys. Chem. 24, 183 (1978). 
Catalysis.” Academic Press, London, 1967. 
1561 (1981). 
240 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
88. Kapustin, G. 
I., Brueva, T. R., Klyachko, A. L., Rukhadze, A. D., and Rubinshtein, A. M., 
Kinet. Katal. 23,972 (1982). 
89. Klyachko, A. L., Bankos, I., Brueva, T. R., and Kapustin, G. I., React. Kinel. Catal. 
Lert. 29, 
451 (1985). 
90. Bankos, I., Klyachko, A. L.. Brueva, T. R., and Kapustin, G. I., React. Kinet. Catal. 
Lett. 3
0
,
 
297 (1986). 
91. Auroux, A., Bolis, V., Wierzchowski, P., Gravelle, P. C., and Vedrine. J. C., J. Chem. Soc.. 
Faraday Trans. 1 75,2544 (1979). 
92. Auroux, A., Gravelle, P. C., VCdrine, J. C., and Rekas, M., in “Proceedings of the Fifth 
International Conference on Zeolites’’ (L. V
.
 Rees, ed.). p. 433. Heyden, London, 1980. 
93. Vedrine, J. C., Auroux, A., and Coudurier, G., ACS Symp. Ser. 248,253 (1984). 
94. Derkaui, A., Kiselev, A. V., and Kuznetsov. B. V., Zh. Fiz Khim. 59, 159(1985). 
95. Derkaui, A., Kiselev. A. V., and Kuznetsov, B. V., J .  Chem. Soc.. Faraday Trans. 181, 1685 
96. GClin, P., Auroux, A., Ben Taarit, Y., and Gravelle, P. C., Appl. Catal. 46,227 (1989). 
97. Rapp, D., “Statistical Mechanics.” Holt, Rinehart & Winston, New York, 1972. 
98. van Bokhoven, J. J. G. M., 
Thermochim. Acta 86,257 (1985). 
99. van Bokhoven, J. J. G. M., Thermochim. Acta 34, 109 (1979). 
100. Garrone, E., Fubini, B., Escalona Platero, E., and Zecchina, A., Lanymuir 5,240 (1989). 
101. Cremer, E., Adu. Catal. Relat. Subj. 7,75 (1955). 
102. Galwey, A. K., Adu. Catal. 26,247 (1977). 
103. Gay, 1. D., and Liang, S., J .  Catal. 
44, 306 ( I  
976). 
104. Cardona-Martinez, N., and Dumesic, J. A., J. Catal. 127,706 (1991). 
105. Cardona-Martinez, N., and Dumesic, J. A., J. Catal. 128, 23 (1991). 
106. Goncharuk, V. V., Pankratiev, Yu. D., and Shcherbatyuk, N. E., React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 
107. Goncharuk, V
.
 V., Pankratiev, Yu. D., and Shcherbatyuk, N. E., React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 
108. Goncharuk, V
.
 V., Pankratiev, Yu. D., and Shcherbatyuk, N, E., React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 
109. Goncharuk, V. V., Karakhim, S
.
 
A., Pankratiev, Yu. D
.
,
 
Balabanova, 0. 
P., and Oleinik, 
110. Bugerko, L. N., and Pankratiev, Yu. D., React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 29,235 (1985). 
111. Fubini, B., Della Gatta, G., and Venturello, G., J. Colloid Interjace Sci. 64, 470 (1978). 
112. Della Gatta, G., Fubini, B., and Stradella, L., J .  Chem, Soc., Faraday Trans. 2 73, 1040 
113. Busca, G., 
and Rossi, P. F., Mater. Chem. Phys. 9,561 (1983). 
114. Rossi, P. F., Caracciolo, G., and Busca, G., Colloids Surt 32, 75 (1988). 
115. Stradella. L
.
.
 
and Venturello, G., in “Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference 
116. Stradella, L., New J. Chem. 12,835 (1988). 
117. Rossi, P. F., and Busca, G., Colloids 
SurJ 16.95 (1985). 
118. Rossi, P. F., and Busca, G., J .  Therm. Anal. 29,745 (1984). 
119. Rossi, P. F., Busca,G., and Lorenzelli, V
.
,
 Z .  
Phys. Chem. [N.S.] 149,99(1986). 
120. Busca, G., Rossi, P. F., Lorenzelli, V., Benaissa, M., Travert, J., and Lavelley, J.-C., J. 
Phys. 
121. Fubini, B., Giamello, E., Della Gatta, G., and Venturello, 
G., J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 1 
122. Giamello, E., and Fubini, B., J .  Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans 1 79, 1995 (1983). 
123. Fubini, B.. Bolis. V., and Giamello, E., Thermochirn. Acta 85.23 (1985). 
(1985). 
14,409 (1980). 
16,69 (1981). 
19,75 (1982). 
L. M., React, Kinet. Catal. Lett. 27, 163 (1985). 
(1977). 
on Thermal Analysis” (B. Miller ed.) Vol. 2. p. 1244. Wiley, Chichester, U.K., 1982. 
Chem. 89,5433 (1985). 
78, 153 (1982). 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
24 
1 
124. Fubini, B., Ghiotti, G., Stradella, L., Garrone, E., and Morterra, C., J. Catal. 66, 200 
125. Ghiotti, G., Garrone, E
.
,
 
Della Gatta, G., Fubini, B., and Giamello, E., J. Catal. 80, 249 
126. Stradella, L., React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 28,307 (1985). 
127. Stradella, L., Thermochim. Acta 95,453 (1985). 
128. Auroux, A., Sayed, M. B., and Vedrine, J. C., Thermochim. Acta 93,557 (1985). 
129. Stradella. L., in“Cata1ysis 
by Acidsand Bases”(B. 
Imelik, C. Naccache,G. Coudurier, Y. 
Ben 
130. Tanaka, S., Thermochim. Acta 141, 181 (1989). 
131. Tanaka, S., Thermochim. Acta 156, 1 17 (1989). 
132. Gow, A. S., and Phillips, J., Thermochim. Acta 148, 173 (1989). 
133. Pluntke, C., Wedler, G., and Rau, G., SurJ Sci. 134, 145 (1983). 
134. Benesi, H. A.. and Winquist, B. H., Adu. Catal. 
27,98 (1978). 
135. Barthomeuf, D., in “Catalysis by Acids and Bases” (B. Imelik, C. Naccache, G. Coudurier, 
136. Shibata, K., Kiyoura, T., Kitagawa, J., Sumiyoshi, 
T., and Tanabe, K., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 
137. Hashimoto. K., Masuda, T., Motoyama, H., Yakushiji, H
.
,
 
and Ono, M., lnd. Eng. Chem. 
138. Yoshizumi, H., Shimada, Y., and Shirasaki, T., Chem. Lett. p. 107 (1973). 
139. Masuda, T., Taniguchi, H., 
Tsutsumi, K., 
and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 51,633 
140. Masuda. T., Taniguchi, H., Tsutsumi, K
.
,
 
and Takahashi, H., J. Jpn. Pet. Inst. 22.67 (1979). 
141. Masuda, T., Taniguchi, H., Tsutsumi. K., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 52,2849 
(1979). 
142. Taniguchi, H., Masuda, T., Tsutsumi, K., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 53, 362 
(1980). 
143. Taniguchi. H., Masuda, T., Tsutsumi, K., and Takahashi, H. Bull. Chem. SOC. 
Jpn. 53,2463 
( 1980). 
144. Mishin, I. V
.
,
 
Klyachko-Gurvich, A. L., Brueva, T. R., and Rubinshtein, A. M., Dokl. Akad. 
Nauk SSSR 
208, 1100 (1973). 
145. Brueva, T. R., Klyachko-Gurvich, A. L., Mishin, I. V., and Rubinshtein, A. M., lzu. Akad. 
Nauk SSSR, 
Ser. Khim. 
6, 1254 (1974). 
146. Bond, G. 
C., “Heterogeneous Catalysis: Principles and Applications,” 
2nd Ed. Oxford Univ. 
Press, London, 1987. 
147. Auroux, A., and Vkdrine, J. C., in “Catalysis by Acids and Bases” (B. Imelik, C. Naccache, 
G. Coudurier, Y. Ben Taarit, and J. C. Vedrine, eds.), p. 31 
I. Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1985. 
148. Brueva, 
T. R., Klyachko, A. L., Mishin, 1. V
.
,
 
and Rubinshtein, A. M., IZIJ. 
Akad. Nauk. SSSR. 
Ser. Khim. 4,939 (1975). 
149. Mauge, F., Auroux, A., Courcelle, J. C., Engelhard, P., Gallezot, P., and Grosmangin, J., in 
“Catalysis by Acids and Bases” (B. Imelik, C. Naccache, G. Coudurier, Y. Ben Taarit, and 
J. C. Vedrine, 
eds.), 
p. 91. Elsevier, 
Amsterdam, 1985. 
150. Macedo, A., Auroux, A,, Raatz, F., Jacquinot, E., and Boulet, R., 
ACS Symp. Ser. 3
6
8
,
 
98 
( 
1988). 
151. Chen, D. T., Sharma, S. B., Filiminov, I., and Dumesic, J. A,, Catal. Lett. 12, 201 (1992). 
152. Miwa, Y
.
,
 
Tsutsumi, K., and Takahashi, H., Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 53,2800 (1980). 
153. Shannon, R. D., Gardner, K. H., Staley, R. H., Bergeret, G., Gallezot, P., and Auroux, A,, 
154. Auroux, A., and Ben Taarit, Y., Thermochim. Acta 122,63 (1987). 
155. Shi, Z. C., Auroux, A,, and Ben Taarit, Y., Can. J. Chem. 66, 1013 (1988). 
(1980). 
(1983). 
Taarit, and J. C. Vedrine, eds.), p. 191. Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1985. 
Y. Ben Taarit, and J. C. Vedrine, eds.), p. 75. Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1985. 
46,2985 (1973). 
Prod. Res. Dev. 25,243 (1986). 
(1978). 
J .  Phys. Chem. 89,4778 (1985). 
242 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
156. Kapustin, G. 
I., Kustov, L. M., Glonti. G. 0
.
.
 
Brueva, T. R., Borovkov, V
.
 Yu. Klyachko. 
A. L., Rubinshtein, 
A. M., and Kazanskii, V
.
 B., Kinet. Katal. 25, 1129 (1984). 
157. Auroux, 
A., Shi, 
Z. C., Echoufi, N., and Ben Taarit, Y., in “Zeolites 
as Catalysts, 
Sorbents and 
Detergent Builders” 
(H. 
G. Karge and J. Weitkamp, 
eds.), 
p. 377. Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1989. 
158. Mitani, Y., Tsutsumi, K., and Takahashi, H., Bull Chem. 
Soc. Jpn. 56, 1921 (1983). 
159. Janin, A., Lavalley, 
J. C.. Macedo, A., and Raatz, F., ACS Symp. Ser. 368, 117 (1988). 
160. Krivanek, M., Kubelkova, L., and Jiru, P., React. Kinet. Cafal. 
Lert. 16,293 (1981). 
161. Krivinek, M., Thiet Dung, N.. and Jiru, P., Thermochin. 
Acta 115,91 (1987). 
162. Breck, D. W., 
“Zeolite Molecular Sieves: Structure, Chemistry, 
and Use.” Wiley, New York, 
163. Klyachko, A. L., Kapustin, G. I., Glonti, G. O., Brueva, T. R., and Rubinshtein, A. M., 
164. Klyachko, 
A. L., Kapustin, G. I., Brueva,T. R., and Rubinstein, 
A. M., Zeolites7,119( 1987). 
165. Tsutsumi, K., and Nishimiya, K., Thermochim. Acta 143,299 (1989). 
166. Tsutsumi, K.. and Mizoe, K., Colloids Surf. 37.39 (1989). 
167. Becker, K. A., J. Chem. Soc., 
Fnraday Trans. 181,1161 (1985). 
168. Dejaifve, P., Auroux, A., Gravelle, P. C., Vedrine, J. C., Gabelica, Z., and Derouane, E. G., 
J .  Catal. 
70, 123 (1981). 
16Y. Vedrine, J. C., Auroux, A., Bolis, V., Dejaifve, P.. Naccache, C., Wierzchowski, P., Derouane, 
E. G., Nagy, J. B., Gilson, J.-P., van HOOK, 
J. H. C., Van den Berg, J. P., and Wolthuizen, 
J., 
J .  Catal. 59, 248 (1979). 
170. Vedrine, J. C., Auroux, A., Dejaifve, P., Ducarme, V., Hoser, H.. and Zhou, S., J. Catal. 
73, 
147 (1982). 
171. Sayed, M. B., Thermochim. 
Acta 126,325 (1988). 
172. Sayed, M. B., Auroux, A,, and Vedrine, 3. C., Appl. Catal. 23,49 (1986). 
173. Coudurier, G., Auroux, A., Vedrine, J. C., Farlee, R. D., Abrams, L., and Shannon, R. D., 
174. Sayed, M. B., Auroux, A,, and Vedrine, J. C., J .  Catal. 116, l(1989). 
175. Auroux. A., in “Innovation in Zeolite Materials Science” 
(P. J. Grobet et al., 
eds.), 
p. 385. 
176. Curthoys, G.. 
Davydov, V
.
 Ya., Kiselev, A. V., Kiselev, S. A,, and Kuznetsov, B. V., J. 
Colloid 
177. Ramis, 
G., 
Rossi, P. F., Busca, G., Lorenzelli, V
.
,
 La Ginestra, A., and Patrono. P., Lanymuir 
178. Fubini, B., Thermochim. Acta 135, 19 (1988). 
179. Rossi, P. F., Busca, G., Lorenzelli, V., Lion, M., and Lavalley, J. C., J. Catal. 109,378 (1988). 
180. Auroux, A,, and Gervasini, A., J. Phys. Chem. 94,6371 (1990). 
181. Bakshi, K. R., and Gavalas, G. R.. J .  Catal. 38,326 (1975). 
182. Della Gatta, G., 
Fubini, B., Ghiotti, G., and Morterra, C., J. Catal. 43,90 (1976). 
183. Zimmermann, R., Schneider, H. A., and Wolf, G., Therrnochim. Acta 92,317 (1985). 
184. Bartmess, J. E., and McIver, R. T., Jr., in “Gas Phase Ion Chemistry” (D. H. Aue and 
185. Perrin, D. D., “Dissociation Constants of Organic Bases in Aqueous Solution: Supplement 
186. Dean, J. A,. ”Langes’s Handbook of Chemistry,” 12th Ed. McGraw-Hill, New York. 1979. 
187. Huheey, J. E., “Inorganic Chemistry: Principles of Structure and Reactivity,” 3rd Ed. 
188. Barteau, M. A., and Madix, R. 
J., Surf. Sci. 120,262 
(1982). 
189. Spitz, R. N.. Barton, J. E., Barteau, M. A., Staley, R. H., and Sleight, A. W., 
J. Phys. Chem. 
190. Drago, R. 
S., and Wayland, B. B., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 87, 3571 (1965). 
1974. 
Kinet. Katal. 26, 706 (1985). 
J .  Catal. 108, 1 (1987). 
Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1987. 
Interface Sci. 
48,58 (1974). 
5,917 (1989). 
M. T. Bowers, eds.), Vol. 2, p. 87. Academic Press, New York, 1979. 
1972.” 
Butterworth, London, 1972. 
Harper & Row, New York, 1983. 
90,4067 (I 
986). 
ADSORPTION MICROCALORIMETRY 
243 
191. Sanderson, R. T., “Polar Covalence.” Academic Press, New York, 1983. 
1Y2. Sanderson, R. T., “Inorganic Chemistry.” Reinhold, New York, 1967. 
193. Sanderson, R. T., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 105, 2259 (1983). 
1Y4. 
Sanderson, R. T., ”Chemical Bonds and Bond Energy.” Academic Press, New York, 1971. 
IYS. Drago, R. S., Struct. Bonding (Berlin) 15, 73 (1973). 
1Y6. Drago, R. S., 
Vogel, G. 
C., and Needham, T. E., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 93,6014 (1971). 
IY7. Drago, R. S., Parr, L. B., and Chamberlain, C. S., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 99, 3203 (1977). 
198. Joslin, S. T., and Fowkes. F. M., Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod. Res. Deu. 24, 369 (1985). 
1YY. Fowkes, F. M., McCarthy, D. C., and Tischler, D. 0.. 
Polym. Sci. Technol. 27,401 (1983). 
2UU. 
Fowkes, F. M., Rubber Chem. Technol. 
57,328 (1984). 
201. 
Fowkes, F. M., in “Physicochemical Aspects of Polymer Surfaces”(K. L. Mittal, ed.), Vol. 2, 
202. 
Lim, Y. Y., Drago, R. S., Babich, M. V., Wong, N., and Doan, P. E.. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
203. 
Lercher, J. A,, Colombier, C., Vinek, H., and Noller, H., Stud. Surf. Sci. Card. 
20,25(1985). 
204. 
Tanaka, K., and Ozaki, A,, J .  Card 8, 1 (1967). 
205. Misono, M., Ochiai, E., Saito, Y., and Yoneda, Y., J. Inory. Nucl. Chem. 29, 2685 (1967). 
206. Pauling, L., “The Nature of the Chemical Bond,” 3rd Ed. Cornell Univ. Press, Ithaca, 
207. 
Allred, A. L., and Rochow, E. G., J. Inory. Nucl. Chem. 5,264 (1958). 
208. Sanderson, R. T., “Chemical Perodicity.” Reinhold, New York, 1960. 
209. 
Giordano, N., Rao, B. S., Cavallaro, S., and Vitarelli, P., in “Advances in Catalysis Science 
and Technology”(T. S. R. Prasad Rao, ed.), 
p. 589. Wiley Eastern Limited, New Delhi. 1985. 
210. 
Simpson, H. D., J .  Phys. Chem. 89,982 (1985). 
211. Rossi, P. F., Busca, G., Lorenzelli, V., Saw, O., and Lavalley, J. C., Lanymuir 3, 52 (1987). 
212. Stradella, L., J. 
Mol. Catul. 
43, 327 (1988). 
213. 
Garrone, E., Bolis, V., Fubini, B., and Morterra, C., Langmuir 5, 892 (1989). 
214. 
Tauster, S. J., Fung, S. C., and Garten, R. L., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 100, 170 (1978). 
215. Santos, J., Phillips, J., and Dumesic, J. A., J. Catal. 
81, 147 (1983). 
216. Jiang, X.-Z., Hayden, T. F., and Dumesic, J. A,, J. Cutal. 
83, 168 (1983). 
217. Vannice, M. A., Hasselbring, L. C., and Sen, B., J. Catal. 95,57 (1985). 
218. Vannice, M. 
A., Hasselbring, L. C., and Sen, B., J. Catal. 97,66 (1986). 
219. Vannice, M. A., and Chou, P., ACS Symp. Ser. 298,76 (1986). 
220. 
Sen, B., Chou, P., and Vannice, M. A,, J .  Catul. 101, 517 (1986). 
221. 
Vannice, M. 
A., Sen, B., and Chou, P., Reti. Sci. 
Instrum. 58,647 (1987). 
222. Rejai, B., and Gonzalez, R. D., J .  Catal. 123,98 (1990). 
223. Rejai, B., and Gonzalez, R. D., J. Catal. 123, 113 (1990). 
224. 
Chou, P., and Vannice, M. A., J. Catal. 104, 1 (1987). 
225. 
Chou, P., and Vannice, M. A,. J. Catal. 104, 17 (1987). 
226. 
Goddard, S. A., Amiridis, M. D., Rekoske, J. E., Cardona-Martinez, N., and Dumesic, J. A., 
227. 
Aukett, P. N., in “Structure and Reactivity of Surfaces” (C. Morterra, A. Zecchina. and 
228. Guerrero, A., Reading, M., Grillel, Y., Rouqutrol, J., Boitiaux, 
J. P., and Cosyns, J.. Z. Phys. 
229. 
Guerrero-Ruiz. A., Appl. Card 55,21 (1989). 
230. Efremov, A. A., Bakhmutova, N. I., Pankratiev. Yu. D., and Kuznetsov, B. N., React. Kinet. 
Catal. Lrtf. 
28, 103 (1985). 
231. Topstie, H., Topstie, N., Bohlbro. H., and Dumesic, J. A,, in “Proceedings of the Seventh 
International Congress on Catalysis” (T. 
Seiyama and K. Tanabe, eds.), p. 247. Elsevier, 
Amsterdam, 198 I .  
p. 583. Plenum, New York, 1981. 
109, 169 (1987). 
New York, 1960. 
J. Cutal. 117, 155 (1989). 
G. 
Costa, eds.), p. 11. Elsevier, Amsterdam. 1989. 
D 
12,583 (1989). 
244 
NELSON CARDONA-MARTINEZ AND J. A. DUMESIC 
232. Poleski, M. B., Auroux, A., and Gravelle, P. C., in “Proceedings 
of the Seventh International 
Conference on Thermal Analysis” (B. Miller, ed.), Vol. 2, p. 1189. Wiley, Chichester, U.K., 
1982. 
233. Sharma, S. B., and Dumesic, J. A,, to be published. 
234. Cerny, S., and Pientka, Z., Surf. Sci. 191,449 
(1987). 
235. Shustorovich, E.. Surf. Sci. Rep. 6, 1 (1986). 
236. O’Neil, M.. and Phillips, J., J. Phys. Chem. 91,2867 (1987). 
237. Gatte, R. R., and Phillips, J., J .  Catal. 116.49 (1989). 
238. Gatte, R. R., and Phillips, J.. Langmuir 5,758 (1989). 
239. Phillips, J., and Gatte, R. R., Thermochim. 
Acla 154, 13 (1989). 
240. Tsarev, V. I., Aptekar, E. L., Krylova, A. V., and Torocheshnikov, N. S., React. Kinet. Catal. 
241. Cerny, S., and Kovar, M., Collect. Czech, Chem. Commun. 53,2412 (1988). 
242. Ostrovskii, V. E., and Medvedkova, E. A., Kinet. Katal. 26, 1433 (1985). 
243. Palfi, S., Lisowski, W., Smutek, M., and Cerny. S., J. Catal. 88,300 
(1984). 
244. Cerny, S., and Smutek, M.. J. Catal. 123,275 (1990). 
245. Boeva, 0. 
A., Zhavoronkova, K. N., Smutek, M., and Cern9, S., J. 
Less-Common Mer. 118, 
246. Yoneda, Y., J .  Catal. 
9,51 (1967). 
247. Greppi, L., M. S. Thesis, University of Wisconsin-Madison (1987). 
248. Dotsch, M., and Fink, H., Thermochim. 
Acra 112,51 (1987). 
249. Bondareva, V. M., Andrushkevich, T. V., and Pankrdtiev, Y. D., React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 
250. Bondareva, V. M., Andrushkevich, T. V
.
,
 
Pankratiev, Y. D., and Turkov. V. M., React. 
251. Bondareva, V
.
 M., Andrushkevich, T. V., Pankratiev, Y. D., and Turkov, V. M., React. 
252. Krivanek, M.. Jiru, P
.
,
 
Freiberg J., and Seeboth. H
.
,
 
Z. Phys. Chem. (Leipzig) 264, I I I 1  
253. Vass, M. I., and Budrugeac, P., J .  Catal. 64.68 (1980). 
254. Dumesic, J. A. Rudd, D. F., Aparicio, L. M., Rekoske, J. E., and TreviRo, A. A,, “The 
Microkinetics of Heterogeneous Catalysis.” American Chemical Society, Washington, 
D.C., 1992 (in press). 
Lett. 14, 279 (1980). 
I (1986). 
32, 171 (1986). 
Kinet. Catal. Lett. 32,371 (1986). 
Kinel. Catal. Lett. 32, 387 (1986). 
(1983). 
