<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific information about the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, the advantages and limitations of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), or the challenges associated with using oxygen as an oxidant. However, it does mention that propylene is an important raw material in the production of various chemicals, and the conventional manufacturing methods such as catalytic and steam cracking do not meet the increasing demand. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has received much attention as an alternative method. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons is characterized by low conversion per pass and low yields due to equilibrium limitation. The process is endothermic and the thermodynamic equilibrium is unfavorable. Temperatures above 800 K are required for commercially feasible conversions. At these temperatures, undesirable side reactions limit the propylene yield and coke formation necessitates frequent catalyst regeneration. The use of too high contact time or temperature causes cracking as a side reaction, therefore, proper reaction conditions are essential for selective dehydrogenation to occur. To reduce catalyst deactivation, cokeremoving agents such as steam and hydrogen have been used as cofeeds in certain commercial processes. Steam controls the reaction temperature, serving as a heat sink and enhances the selectivity. The promoting effect of CO2 is explained either by consumption of the hydrogen in the reverse watergas shift reaction (RWGS), which shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation to completion (twostep pathway) or its participation in direct oxidation of propane to propylene (onestep pathway). The onestep mechanism has been proposed for redox oxides, where CO2 can participate as an oxidizing agent in the following redox cycle. Redox oxides involve the transfer of electron between species by different oxidation states. The twostep pathway has been proposed for nonredox oxides such as Ga2O3. Unfortunately, depending on the system conditions, many undesired side reactions can occur including dry reforming of propane to synthesis gas and propane decomposition, which brings about coke formation. Propane dehydrogenation with carbon dioxide is characterized by rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Any combination of reactions could be favored according to the catalyst formulation and operating conditions and, accordingly, different sets of equilibria could be approached. A suitable catalyst should favor only the desirable reaction(s).

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供关于当前丙烯生产方法的主要挑战、氧化脱氢丙烷(ODHP)的优势和局限性，以及使用氧气作为氧化剂的具体挑战的特定信息。但是，它确实提到丙烯是生产各种化学品的重要原料，传统的制造方法如催化裂化和蒸汽裂化无法满足日益增长的需求。丙烷脱氢(PDH)作为一种替代方法受到了广泛关注。直接催化脱氢烃类的特点是每通过一次的转化率低，产量低，由于平衡限制。该过程是吸热的，热力学平衡是不利的。为了实现商业上可行的转化，需要超过800 K的温度。在这些温度下，不希望的副反应限制了丙烯的产量，焦炭的形成需要频繁的催化剂再生。使用过高的接触时间或温度会导致裂化作为副反应，因此，适当的反应条件对于选择性脱氢是必不可少的。为了减少催化剂失活，已经将焦炭去除剂如蒸汽和氢气作为共进料用于某些商业过程。蒸汽控制反应温度，作为热阱并增强选择性。CO2的促进作用可以通过消耗氢气在逆向水煤气转换反应(RWGS)中解释，这将丙烷脱氢的平衡转移到完成(两步路径)，或者它参与直接氧化丙烷到丙烯(一步路径)。已经为氧化还原氧化物提出了一步机制，其中CO2可以作为氧化剂参与以下氧化还原循环。氧化还原氧化物涉及通过不同氧化态之间的电子转移。已经为非氧化还原氧化物如Ga2O3提出了两步路径。不幸的是，根据系统条件，许多不希望的副反应可能会发生，包括丙烷干重整为合成气和丙烷分解，这会导致焦炭的形成。丙烷与二氧化碳脱氢的特点是由于焦炭形成导致催化剂快速失活。根据催化剂配方和操作条件，任何反应组合都可能受到青睐，因此，可以接近不同的平衡集。合适的催化剂应该只促进期望的反应。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
