<quotes>

[1] "Propylene is an important raw material in the production of polypropylene,polyacrylonitrile, acrolein, and acrylic acid. The conventional manufacturing methods such as catalytic and steam cracking which produce propylene as a byproduct do not meet the everincreasing demand. Therefore, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has received much attention (HeinritzAdrian et al., 2008):"

[2] "Direct catalytic dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons is characterized by low conversion per pass and low yields due to equilibrium limitation. The process is endothermic and the thermodynamic equilibrium is unfavorable (Olah and Molnar, 2003). Temperatures above 800 K are required for commercially feasible conversions. At these temperatures,undesirable side reactions limit the propylene yield and coke formation necessitates frequent catalyst regeneration."

[3] "Catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane by oxygen is an attractive alternative because it is an exothermic and nonthermodynamically limited reaction. However, the propylene selectivity of the reaction remains an unsolved problem owing to the over oxidation of propane (Xu et al., 2006)."

[4] "On the other hand, soft oxidants such as carbon dioxide appear as potential alternatives. The PDH in the presence of carbon dioxide (CO2PDH) is also of interest because it utilizes the greenhouse gas CO2 (Zangeneh et al., 2011)."

[5] "CO2 is a coke removing agent as well. Bartholomew (1984) reported that oxidizability in the gasification of coke was in the following order: O2(105) > H2O(3) > CO2(1) > H2(0.003), where numbers in parentheses indicate the relative ratios of the gasification with oxidants."

[6] "The promoting effect of CO2 is explained either by consumption of the hydrogen in the reverse watergas shift reaction  RWGS (reaction 2), which shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation to completion (twostep pathway) or its participation in direct oxidation of propane to propylene (reaction 3) (onestep pathway):"

[7] "The oxide catalysts which are active in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane are also active in the process with CO2. Many bulk and supported oxidebased materials containing active species, such as Cr (Michorczyk and Ogonowski, 2003; Michorczyk et al., 2008; Michorczyk et al., 2010; Michorczyk et al., 2011), Ga (Michorczyk et al., 2003; Xu et al., 2006), V (Takahara et al., 2005; Ogonowski and Skrzynska, 2008) and Fe (Michorczyk et al., 2004) have been studied as catalysts for dehydrogenation of propane in the presence of CO2. Among the investigated materials, those containing Cr or Ga were found to be the most active and selective (Michorczyk et al., 2011)."

[8] "Propane dehydrogenation with carbon dioxide is characterized by rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation. Ga2O3 showed drastic deactivation during a few hours on stream (Zheng et al., 2005). Besides coke formation, the reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III) is responsible for deactivation of chromium based catalysts (Zhang et al., 2011)."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1. The conventional methods of producing propylene, such as catalytic and steam cracking, do not meet the increasing demand for propylene. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is receiving attention as an alternative method. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons has low conversion per pass and low yields due to equilibrium limitations. The process is endothermic and the thermodynamic equilibrium is unfavorable. Temperatures above 800 K are required for commercially feasible conversions. At these temperatures, undesirable side reactions limit the propylene yield and coke formation necessitates frequent catalyst regeneration. Catalytic oxidative dehydrogenation of propane by oxygen is an attractive alternative because it is an exothermic and nonthermodynamically limited reaction. However, the propylene selectivity of the reaction remains an unsolved problem owing to the over oxidation of propane. On the other hand, soft oxidants such as carbon dioxide appear as potential alternatives. The PDH in the presence of carbon dioxide (CO2PDH) is also of interest because it utilizes the greenhouse gas CO2. CO2 is a coke removing agent as well. The promoting effect of CO2 is explained either by consumption of the hydrogen in the reverse watergas shift reaction, which shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation to completion (twostep pathway) or its participation in direct oxidation of propane to propylene (onestep pathway). The oxide catalysts which are active in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of propane are also active in the process with CO2. Propane dehydrogenation with carbon dioxide is characterized by rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1. 传统的丙烯生产方法，如催化裂化和蒸汽裂化，不能满足对丙烯日益增长的需求。丙烷脱氢（PDH）作为一种替代方法正在受到关注。直接催化脱氢的烃类具有每通过低转化率和低产量的特点，这是由于平衡限制。该过程是吸热的，热力学平衡是不利的。为了实现商业上可行的转化，需要超过800 K的温度。在这些温度下，不希望的副反应限制了丙烯的产量，焦炭的形成需要频繁的催化剂再生。催化氧化脱氢的丙烷通过氧气是一个有吸引力的替代方案，因为它是一个放热的，非热力学限制的反应。然而，丙烯的选择性问题仍然没有解决，因为丙烷的过度氧化。另一方面，软氧化剂如二氧化碳似乎是一个潜在的替代品。在二氧化碳存在下的PDH也引起了人们的兴趣，因为它利用了温室气体二氧化碳。二氧化碳也是一种焦炭去除剂。二氧化碳的促进作用要么通过消耗氢气在逆向水煤气转换反应中，使丙烷脱氢的平衡完成（两步途径），要么通过直接氧化丙烷为丙烯（一步途径）来解释。在非氧化脱氢的丙烷中活性的氧化物催化剂在二氧化碳存在下也是活性的。丙烷脱氢与二氧化碳的特点是催化剂迅速失活，这是由于焦炭的形成。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
