<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific information on the primary challenges in current propylene production methods, the advantages and limitations of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP), or the challenges associated with using oxygen as an oxidant. However, it does mention that propylene is an important raw material in the production of various chemicals, and the conventional manufacturing methods such as catalytic and steam cracking do not meet the increasing demand. Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has received much attention as an alternative method. Direct catalytic dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons is characterized by low conversion per pass and low yields due to equilibrium limitation. The process is endothermic and the thermodynamic equilibrium is unfavorable, requiring temperatures above 800 K for commercially feasible conversions. At these temperatures, undesirable side reactions limit the propylene yield and coke formation necessitates frequent catalyst regeneration. The use of too high contact time or temperature causes cracking as a side reaction, therefore, proper reaction conditions are essential for selective dehydrogenation to occur. To reduce catalyst deactivation, cokeremoving agents such as steam and hydrogen have been used as cofeeds in certain commercial processes. Steam controls the reaction temperature, serving as a heat sink and enhances the selectivity. The promoting effect of CO2 is explained either by consumption of the hydrogen in the reverse watergas shift reaction, which shifts the equilibrium of propane dehydrogenation to completion (twostep pathway) or its participation in direct oxidation of propane to propylene (onestep pathway). The onestep mechanism has been proposed for redox oxides, where CO2 can participate as an oxidizing agent in the redox cycle. Redox oxides involve the transfer of electron between species by different oxidation states. The twostep pathway has been proposed for nonredox oxides such as Ga2O3. Unfortunately, depending on the system conditions, many undesired side reactions can occur including dry reforming of propane to synthesis gas and propane decomposition, which brings about coke formation. Propane dehydrogenation with carbon dioxide is characterized by rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供关于当前丙烯生产方法的主要挑战、氧化脱氢丙烷(ODHP)的优势和局限性，以及使用氧气作为氧化剂的具体挑战的特定信息。但是，它确实提到丙烯是生产各种化学品的重要原料，传统的制造方法如催化裂解和蒸汽裂解不能满足日益增长的需求。丙烷脱氢(PDH)作为一种替代方法受到了广泛关注。直接催化脱氢烃类的特点是每步转化率低，产量低，受平衡限制。该过程是吸热的，热力学平衡是不利的，需要800 K以上的温度才能实现商业上可行的转化。在这些温度下，不希望的副反应限制了丙烯的产量，焦炭的形成需要频繁的催化剂再生。使用过高的接触时间或温度会导致裂化作为副反应，因此，适当的反应条件对于选择性脱氢是必不可少的。为了减少催化剂的失活，已经使用了如蒸汽和氢气等焦炭去除剂作为某些商业过程中的共进料。蒸汽控制反应温度，作为热阱，增强选择性。二氧化碳的促进作用可以通过消耗氢气在逆向水煤气变换反应中解释，这将丙烷脱氢的平衡转移到完成(两步路径)，或者它参与直接氧化丙烷到丙烯(一步路径)。一步机制已被提出用于氧化还原氧化物，其中二氧化碳可以作为氧化剂参与氧化还原循环。氧化还原氧化物涉及不同氧化态物种之间的电子转移。两步路径已被提出用于非氧化还原氧化物，如Ga2O3。不幸的是，根据系统条件，许多不希望的副反应可能会发生，包括丙烷干重整为合成气和丙烷分解，这将带来焦炭的形成。丙烷与二氧化碳脱氢的特点是催化剂失活迅速，这是由于焦炭的形成。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
