<quotes>

[1] "In the past several decades, light alkane dehydrogenation to mono-olefins, especially propane dehydrogenation to propylene has gained widespread attention and much development in the field of research and commercial application."
[2] "Under suitable conditions, the supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts widely used in industry exhibit satisfactory dehydrogenation activity and selectivity."
[3] "However, the high cost of Pt and the potential environmental problems of CrOx have driven researchers to improve the coking and sintering resistance of Pt catalysts, and to find new non-noble metal and environment-friendly catalysts."
[4] "Therefore, the research direction of reactor improvement is towards reducing the pressure drop."
[5] "This review is aimed at introducing the characteristics of the dehydrogenation reaction, the progress made in the development of catalysts and reactors, and a new understanding of reaction mechanism as well as its guiding role in the development of catalyst and reactor."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has gained widespread attention and much development in the field of research and commercial application. The supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts widely used in industry exhibit satisfactory dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and the potential environmental problems of CrOx have driven researchers to improve the coking and sintering resistance of Pt catalysts, and to find new non-noble metal and environment-friendly catalysts. The research direction of reactor improvement is towards reducing the pressure drop. This review introduces the characteristics of the dehydrogenation reaction, the progress made in the development of catalysts and reactors, and a new understanding of reaction mechanism as well as its guiding role in the development of catalyst and reactor. PDH technology specifically addresses the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by using propane as a feedstock, which is widely available and has a high conversion rate to propylene. The process is highly efficient and selective, with high propylene yield and low by-product formation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.丙烷直接脱氢（PDH）技术在研究和商业应用领域获得了广泛关注和大量发展。工业上广泛使用的PtSn和CrOx催化剂表现出令人满意的脱氢活性和选择性。然而，Pt的高成本和CrOx的潜在环境问题促使研究人员提高Pt催化剂的焦化和烧结抗性，并寻找新的非贵金属和环保催化剂。反应器改进的研究方向是降低压降。本综述介绍了脱氢反应的特性、催化剂和反应器开发的进展，以及对反应机理的新理解及其在催化剂和反应器开发中的指导作用。PDH技术通过使用丙烷作为原料，解决了传统生产方法在原料可用性、过程效率和产品选择性方面面临的挑战。丙烷广泛可用，丙烯转化率高。该工艺效率高，选择性好，丙烯产量高，副产品形成少。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
