5 Comparing Different Catalysts
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
5.1 In Terms of Reaction Mechanism and Deactivation Pathway
Even though the dehydrogenation reaction has been studied for almost a century, the exact mechanism is still a topic under debate, particularly because this reaction is catalyzed by a vast array of materials as different as noble metals and transition metal oxides. The so-called Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, which was proposed in 1934, is most commonly used to describe catalytic dehydrogenation reactions. (285) This mechanism follows Langmuir–Hinshelwood kinetics, where all of the surface sites of the catalyst are considered to be identical. The Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism consists of four main steps: dissociative adsorption of the paraffin, C–H cleavage of a second hydrogen atom, formation of a hydrogen molecule, and subsequent desorption of both the hydrogen and the olefin, as is shown in Scheme 2a–g. (286) Notably, both C–H cleavage steps (229, 263, 287-289) and the dissociative adsorption of the paraffin have been suggested as the rate-limiting step of the dehydrogenation reaction. (96, 98, 144, 290)
Several studies have been performed on Pt and Pt–Sn catalysts to gain a detailed understanding of the mechanism of the dehydrogenation reaction. First, isotopic labeling experiments have been used to identify the reaction intermediates. For example, cofeeding D2 during ethane dehydrogenation resulted in a single deuterium being attached to the ethane molecules, suggesting an ethyl reaction intermediate. (291) However, because the dehydrogenation reaction is an equilibrium-controlled reaction, compounds can react back and forth leading to isotopic scrambling, which complicates the interpretation of experimental results.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Dehydrogenation Mechanism As Proposed by Horiuti and Polanyi on a Pt Surfacea
Scheme aThe intermediates depicted have been observed by IR spectroscopy during the hydrogenation reaction at low temperatures and are supported by theoretical calculations. The dissociative adsorption of propane may also take place by the abstraction of the β-hydrogen, forming a 2-propyl intermediate, but for brevity this pathway is not shown. High paraffin pressures favor the formation of propylidyne species (step h-j), which are coke precursors. These species are relatively stable and can only be hydrogenated when high concentrations of hydrogen are present on the Pt surface. (292-297)
Infrared spectroscopy is another valuable tool to detect intermediates formed during dehydrogenation reactions on Pt-based catalysts. Because of experimental limitations, this is done through the study of the reverse hydrogenation reaction, which takes places at considerably lower temperatures. This approach assumes that the same reaction intermediates are encountered, which needs to be verified due to the significantly different reaction conditions. During the adsorption of ethylene on both Pt and Pt–Sn surfaces at temperatures ranging from −100 to 27 °C, several species are detected, including ethylidyne as well as π-bonded and di-σ-bonded ethylene (the propylene analogues of which are shown in Scheme 2). (116, 117, 298-300) Cremer et al. used sum frequency generation IR to elucidate the role of these ethylene adspecies on a Pt (111) surface. (301, 302) During ethylene hydrogenation, ethylidyne was found to be a spectator species, although one competing for active sites on the catalyst surface. On the other hand, π-bonded ethylene was determined to be the main intermediate of ethylene hydrogenation, although di-σ-bonded ethylene was also converted at a lower rate. Ethyl groups are only detected at very high hydrogen pressures, as these species readily convert to di-σ-ethylene otherwise. Nevertheless, Zaera et al. have reported that the reaction mechanism of ethylene hydrogenation involves a π-bonded ethylene and an ethyl intermediate. (303) Furthermore, when propylene adsorption on Pt (111) was studied by reflection–absorption IR spectroscopy, most of the propylene was found to be coordinated as di-σ-bonded, albeit π-bonded propylene was found to predominate at high surface coverages. (292) On the contrary, DFT calculations showed that propylene is preferentially adsorbed in the disigma mode. (75, 114) DFT calculations performed on Pt, Pt3Sn, and Pt2Sn (111) surfaces during the PDH reaction have revealed that the dissociative adsorption of the alkane is the rate-limiting step. In the presence of Sn, this energy barrier is increased, as is shown in Figure 28, therefore decreasing the activity of the catalyst. (114, 118) On Pt (111) the dehydrogenation may proceed by a 1- or a 2-propyl intermediate, while on the Pt–Sn alloys the 1-propyl intermediate is favored. The positive effect of Sn on catalytic activity is explained by the facile desorption of propylene, which hinders further dehydrogenation of the adsorbed propylene.
Microcalorimetry has afforded complementary information on the dehydrogenation mechanism over Pt-based catalysts, a lower heat of adsorption of ethylene being detected on the Pt–Sn relative to the Pt surface (94–135 and 157 kJ mol–1, respectively). (117, 296) These relatively high heat of adsorption values are generally indicative of the dissociative adsorption of a hydrocarbon. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations on the adsorption of ethane on different Pt and Pt–Sn alloy surfaces, (111) and (211), have revealed that electron transfer takes place from Sn to Pt. Keeping in mind the fact that Sn addition reduces the heat of adsorption, the formation of ethylidyne becomes energetically less favorable because of this electron transfer. (117, 118, 289, 304) In addition, by studying these different Pt–Sn alloys, it was shown that the presence of Sn reduces the amount of highly active Pt step sites, on which reaction intermediates adsorb strongly. (304) The latter observation is rendered particularly noteworthy by the fact that isotopic labeling experiments, performed by Galvita et al. during ethane dehydrogenation, have revealed that ethylene can form methane and coke through cracking, the conversion proceeding via an ethylidyne intermediate. (132, 290)
The dehydrogenation mechanism on chromia-based catalysts is somewhat different, as both the chromium and the oxygen atoms of the oxide are believed to participate in the reaction. (305) Quantum chemical methods (DFT) have been used by Lillehaug et al. to study the mechanism of ethane dehydrogenation on a series of clusters containing a single Cr3+ ion bonded to O–H or O–Si groups species, which served as a model for the different active sites suggested in literature. (306, 307) The first step they proposed is C–H activation via σ-bond metathesis resulting in the formation of Cr–C and O–H bonds, followed by a β-H transfer to a Cr site. (306, 308) The final step proposed is the formation of hydrogen and the desorption of the latter and ethylene. An alternative mechanism, in which a Cr–H species activates ethane by forming molecular hydrogen and an adsorbed ethyl species, has been proposed on the basis of the results of isotopic labeling experiments performed during ethane dehydrogenation on a CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst. (144) The two main mechanisms proposed for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes on chromia/alumina catalysts are shown in Scheme 3. In these mechanisms, either the dissociative adsorption (144, 305) or β-H elimination is believed to be the rate-limiting step. (306, 309, 310) Figure 29 shows two reaction cycles in an energy diagram, as calculated by Lillehaug et al. Indeed, the energy barrier is the highest for the initial C–H activation, although this energy is significantly lower when the bond is activated by the Cr–H intermediate (i.e., the right part of Scheme 3). Nevertheless, hydrogen desorption is preferred, as the energy barrier is lower.
In situ FTIR spectroscopy has provided evidence of the formation of acetaldehyde and acetone intermediates as ethane and propane are adsorbed on a mesoporous chromia–alumina catalyst. (197) Furthermore, during the dehydrogenation of propane on a CrOx catalyst, surface species including aliphatic, unsaturated, and aromatic carbon species, along with acetates and carboxylates, have been detected by diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS). (192, 197, 311) This is consistent with a model in which the first step of the reaction is the abstraction of hydrogen from the alkane to form an alkoxide species (ethoxide and isopropoxide being formed from ethane and propane, respectively). However, the reduction of the catalyst prior to the dehydrogenation reaction led to a dramatic decrease in the amounts of acetates and carboxylates detected, albeit the reaction rate remained unaffected. Evidently, the latter throws into question the role of acetic and carboxylic species as reaction intermediates. An alternative interpretation is that these species are formed during the reduction of the Cr6+ species by hydrocarbons present in the feed. Parenthetically, the involvement of hydrocarbons in the formation of reduced active chromium sites, the participation of both chromium and oxygen atoms in the reaction, and the proposition that C–H activation represents the first reaction step are somewhat reminiscent of the Phillips catalyst and of the mechanism of ethylene polymerization recently proposed by Copéret and co-workers over this formulation. (312, 313) However, additional work will be necessary to investigate the relationship between the mechanisms of ethylene polymerization and ethane dehydrogenation, particularly in view of the different nature of the reactions and the reaction conditions.
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Proposed Reaction Mechanisms for the Dehydrogenation of Ethane on CrOx Catalysts (144, 306, 307)
Figure 29
The reaction mechanism on GaOx has been studied by Liu et al. by DFT calculations on a Ga (100) surface (Figure 30). (231) A mechanism similar to that shown in Scheme 3 was proposed, except for the fact that the initial C–H activation takes place involving a radical, which can adsorb on the Ga site as an ethyl species, or directly undergo the second C–H cleavage step. The desorption of both hydrogen and propylene was found to be energetically unfavorable, which was used to explain the rapid coking and the relative low activity of GaOx-based dehydrogenation catalysts. Indeed, while heating Ga2O3 in an ethane atmosphere, the evolution of Ga-ethyl and hydroxyl surface species was observed by DRIFTS at 150 °C. (316)

To summarize, most of the experimental results suggest that the dehydrogenation of light alkanes proceeds via the Horiuti–Polanyi mechanism, where either the dissociative adsorption of the alkane or the second C–H bond cleavage is the rate-determining step. Evidence of fundamental differences in the reaction mechanism on metal oxide and noble metal catalysts is lacking, although reports of mechanistic studies involving metal oxide catalysts are admittedly scant.
All dehydrogenation catalysts deactivate with time-on-stream, several processes being responsible for the deactivation of the different types of catalysts discussed in this Review. However, there has been a clear consensus in the literature since the mid-1970s identifying coke deposition as the main cause of deactivation. (77, 317-319) Coke is a collective name given to a large family of highly graphitized hydrocarbon molecules that tend to form on the catalyst surface during reaction. Coke accumulation effectively hinders the diffusion of reactants to the catalyst surface by blocking both pores and active sites, which results in a drop in catalytic activity. Therefore, the detrimental effect of coke is largely dependent on catalyst design and the location of the coke deposits. (320)
The process of coke formation is very complex and not very well understood. Brønsted acid and others active sites of the catalysts serve as seeding points to which olefins and paraffins are added until large graphitic structures are formed. Indeed, olefins in the stream can easily react with the carbocation intermediates formed on these acid sites. Additionally, strong adsorption of reaction intermediates, such as the ethylidyne or ethyne species discussed above, (75, 132, 290) and/or products on active sites can also induce polymerization and lead to the formation of graphitic sheets. In Scheme 4, several pathways for the formation of the first aromatic ring structures from propylidyne and similar molecules are proposed, which include cracking, deep dehydrogenation, and polymerization reactions.
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Proposed Pathway Linking the Formation of Strongly Adsorbed Propyl Species to That of an Aromatic Ring through a Series of Cracking (a–e), Deep Dehydrogenation (f–i), and/or Dimerization (f,g,j,k) Reactions (293, 294, 321)a
Scheme aNote that the adsorbed hydrocarbons shown in the scheme are examples of species formed on the Pt surface, and that they actually represent a family of similar species.
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Proposed Mechanisms for the Growth of Polyaromatic Species by Either Diels–Alder-type Addition, Propylene Addition via Radical Chemistry, or Fusion of Small Domains into Larger Ones (322, 323)a
Scheme aThe species will continue to grow in a similar fashion, and at a certain point are considered to be graphene-like sheets. The molecules in the scheme are only simplified hydrogen-deficient coke precursors that may be present on the surface of the catalyst. Such species are directly bonded to the Pt surface and in reality will contain significant amounts of hydrogen, either in hydrogen-terminated aromatic rings or in aliphatic side chains.
Coke species may grow from the resulting aromatic rings by either Diels–Alder-type addition, propylene addition to a radical, or fusion of smaller domains, as shown in Scheme 5. When these polyaromatic species are still relatively small, they can also migrate from the metal to the support (where they can undergo further oligomerization and condensation). In fact, the addition of Sn to the Pt-based catalyst facilitates this migration by weakening the binding of the hydrocarbon to the metal. (304, 324, 325) In addition, acid sites present on the support may protonate these small polyaromatics, making them more reactive toward gas-phase olefins. (322, 326) Nevertheless, studies on these processes are scant, which is why the mechanism explaining the progression from adsorbed atomic carbon to aromatic rings is still largely unknown. Therefore, more detailed studies are needed to better understand this process. For example, it would be beneficial to gain a fundamental understanding on the steps proposed in Schemes 4 and 5 to develop strategies to prevent coke formation through these routes.
The location of coke is very important, as coke on the support has a milder negative effect on catalyst activity. (320, 324) However, it is important to note that the presence of carbon deposits on the surface does not always negatively influence catalyst performance. Indeed, a low amount of coke deposition has been observed to increase the catalytic activity by facilitating the adsorption of the alkane near the active dehydrogenation site. (320) Furthermore, highly active sites responsible for side reactions, such as hydrogenolysis, are the first to be poisoned by coke, resulting in higher selectivity to the olefin product. Coke becomes detrimental when large graphitic sheets are formed that cover the catalytically active sites. (173, 180) To address this coke-induced deactivation, a regeneration step under an oxidative atmosphere has been incorporated to industrial dehydrogenation processes. This process is relatively straightforward, as coke is easily combusted in air at dehydrogenation reaction temperatures. The ambivalent nature of coke deposits is further highlighted by the fact that their presence on deactivated catalysts is essential in the industrial processes that use coke combustion as the main source of the heat required to run the dehydrogenation reaction.
Several strategies have been applied to control coke formation. For example, coke deposition can be dramatically reduced by using a support with little to no Brønsted acidity, or by poisoning the acid sites. Changes in the reaction conditions, such as cofeeding steam, hydrogen, or CO2, can reduce coke formation, (324, 327, 328) whereas high partial pressures of olefins and paraffins exacerbate coke deposition. Even the nature of the alkane reactant has an effect, as coke formed during propane dehydrogenation on a Pt–Sn/Al2O3 catalyst is reported to be more detrimental than coke formed during ethane dehydrogenation (although such a comparison is difficult because these reactions run at different temperatures). (132) Alternatively, coke deposition can be reduced by adding a promoter element, the addition of Sn to Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts being the best-known example.