element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
View PDF
Download full issue
Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical
Volume 268, Issues 1–2
, 1 May 2007, Pages 227-234
Pt–Sn catalysts supported on highly-dispersed ceria on carbon: Application to citral hydrogenation
Author links open overlay panel
J.C. Serrano-Ruiz a
,
A. Sepúlveda-Escribano a
,
F. Rodríguez-Reinoso a
,
D. Duprez b
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molcata.2006.12.031
Get rights and content
Abstract
A novel kind of bimetallic Pt–Sn catalysts supported on carbon and promoted with highly-dispersed ceria were prepared by a co-impregnation method and tested in the liquid phase hydrogenation of citral after reduction at low (473 K) and high (773 K) temperatures. They were characterized by N2 adsorption at 77 K, X-ray diffraction, temperature-programmed reduction (TPR), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and CO chemisorption at room temperature. Results from N2 adsorption, XRD and TEM indicated that impregnation method used here led to a highly-dispersed ceria on carbon. Conversely to massive CeO2, TPR profile of CeO2/C showed two broad overlapped peaks at low temperatures (803 and 903 K), which are indicative of the easier reduction of the supported promoter. Addition of platinum partially promotes the reduction of surface ceria, this indicating a close metal–promoter interaction. Ceria reducibility was increased with tin addition. The reduction treatment at 773 K produced a strong decrease in the CO adsorption capacity in all cases, although this loss was more relevant for the monometallic catalyst. After reduction at low temperature (473 K), the monometallic Pt/CeO2/C was the most active catalyst, while the presence of tin reduced the catalytic activity. Reduction at high temperature (773 K) produced the decrease of activity in the case of monometallic sample while bimetallic catalysts, specially the one with Sn/Pt = 0.25, increased the citral conversion values. Reduction treatment at 773 K also increased selectivity to unsaturated alcohols (geraniol and nerol) of bimetallic samples, which presented in all cases higher values than their monometallic counterpart. The onset of new Pt–CeOx and Pt–SnOx sites after the reduction process is proposed to explain the increase in activity and selectivity of bimetallic catalysts.
Graphical abstract
A novel kind of bimetallic Pt–Sn catalysts supported on carbon and promoted with highly-dispersed ceria were prepared by a co-impregnation method and tested in the liquid phase hydrogenation of citral after reduction at low (473 K) and high (773 K) temperatures. They were characterized by N2 adsorption at 77 K, X-ray diffraction, temperature-programmed reduction (TPR), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and CO chemisorption at room temperature. Results from N2 adsorption, XRD and TEM indicated that impregnation method used here led to a highly-dispersed ceria on carbon. Conversely to massive CeO2, TPR profile of CeO2/C showed two broad overlapped peaks at low temperatures (803 and 903 K), which are indicative of the easier reduction of the supported promoter. Addition of platinum partially promotes the reduction of surface ceria, this indicating a close metal–promoter interaction. Ceria reducibility was increased with tin addition. The reduction treatment at 773 K produced a strong decrease in the CO adsorption capacity in all cases, although this loss was more relevant for the monometallic catalyst. After reduction at low temperature (473 K), the monometallic Pt/CeO2/C was the most active catalyst, while the presence of tin reduced the catalytic activity. Reduction at high temperature (773 K) produced the decrease of activity in the case of monometallic sample while bimetallic catalysts, specially the one with Sn/Pt = 0.25, increased the citral conversion values. Reduction treatment at 773 K also increased selectivity to unsaturated alcohols (geraniol and nerol) of bimetallic samples, which presented in all cases higher values than their monometallic counterpart. The onset of new Pt–CeOx and Pt–SnOx sites after the reduction process is proposed to explain the increase in activity and selectivity of bimetallic catalysts.
Previous article
Next article
Keywords
CeriaCarbonCitral hydrogenationSMSIPlatinumTin
Loading...
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
Copyright © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.