<quotes>
(1) "The reversibly adsorbed hydrogen and deuterium on zinc oxide at -195 and -183 have been examined by adsorption and IR techniques."
(2) "Infrared studies and the temperature and pressure dependence show this hydrogen is present in molecular form and is limited to 5 to 10% of the surface."
(3) "The nature of adsorbed hydrogen has also been examined by a number of nonmechanistic techniques."
(4) "In order to specify the adsorption characteristics of the molecular species (termed type 111) responsible for the IR spectra, we must devise a scheme for subtracting out the physical adsorption contributions to the volumetric isotherms in Figure 1."
(5) "Contributions of physical adsorption should be most pronounced at higher pressures and should occur with heats of adsorption more comparable to the heat of liquefaction (0.216 kcal/moll7) than the initial heats, characteristic of type 111 hydrogen."
(6) "At higher coverages, where additional adsorption is largely physical, I11 should become independent of total coverage. This limiting coverage defines the saturation amount of type 111 hydrogen."
(7) "The above experiments suggest that type 111 hydrogen adsorption occurs on a fraction of the surface comparable to that responsible for type I adsorption."
(8) "Effects of water adsorption on the hydrogen spectrum support this interpretation."
(9) "We have extended these computations somewhat, also with the help of the tables of Stratton, et al., and the results are summarized in Figure 7."
(10) "We have searched for a series of bands for adsorbed deuterium and have found only one."
(11) "Since the shift for various isotopic species (Table I) suggests this band is a purely vibrational one, we conclude the band corresponds to AJ = 0."
(12) "The detailed interpretation of the spectrum leads to the conclusion that the barrier to rotation is high but does not specify how high."
(13) "Evaluation of the barrier height by these computations, however, is fruitless since the values n, m, and zo are uncertain and the computations are sensitive functions of these values."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The literature discusses the adsorption and spectroscopic properties of hydrogen and deuterium on zinc oxide surfaces at cryogenic temperatures. The hydrogen adsorption is characterized as reversible and involves both atomic and molecular species. The molecular hydrogen is present in a small percentage of the surface and shows a significant isotope effect. The nature of the adsorbed hydrogen is studied using infrared spectroscopy, which reveals the presence of molecular hydrogen. The adsorption characteristics of molecular hydrogen are compared to those of type I and type I11 hydrogen, with type I11 hydrogen adsorbing on a fraction of the surface comparable to that responsible for type I adsorption. Water adsorption selectively poisons the sites for type I adsorption, supporting the interpretation that type I and type I11 hydrogen adsorb on the same sites. The detailed interpretation of the infrared spectrum indicates that the barrier to rotation of the molecular hydrogen species is high, but the exact height of the barrier cannot be precisely determined due to uncertainties in the parameters of the model. The molecular hydrogen species is considered a prime candidate for the intermediate in ortho-para hydrogen conversion on zinc oxide surfaces.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
文献讨论了在低温下锌氧化物表面上氢和重氢的吸附和光谱特性。吸附的氢包括原子和分子两种形式，其中分子氢占据表面的小比例，并显示出显著的同位素效应。通过红外光谱法发现存在分子氢。通过比较类型I和类型III氢的吸附特性，发现类型III氢在表面的吸附比例与类型I相似。水吸附选择性地破坏了类型I吸附的位点，支持了类型I和类型III氢在相同位点吸附的解释。红外光谱的详细解释表明，分子氢物种的旋转障碍很高，但确定障碍的确切高度是困难的，因为模型参数存在不确定性。认为在锌氧化物表面上，这种分子氢物种是正交-顺式氢转换的候选中间体。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
