I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


44 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 In summary, the Haag-Dessau mechanism for protolytic activation of the alkane via penta-coordinated carbonium-ion-like transition states explains the observed product distribution. Experimental studies show different rates for H/D exchange, C-H bond cleavage, and C-C bond cleavage, and also address the crucial role of alkane adsorption in determining the intrinsic reaction rates. Theoretical studies have shown different transition state struc- tures for these reactions and hence provided a basis for rationalizing differ- ences in measured experimental rates for these reactions. The current challenge lies in extending this understanding to longer and branched hydro- carbon molecules, both experimentally and theoretically.
3.1.2.
Olefin Adsorption As discussed in Section 2.4., initial work from McVicker and coworkers, NMR studies from Gorte and coworkers as well as Haw and coworkers, and theoretical studies from Kazansky and coworkers have established the for- mation of neutral alkoxide structures upon olefin adsorption in zeolites. We extend that discussion here and focus only on the olefin adsorption studies.
As discussed in section 2.2., paraffin adsorption in zeolites has been well studied experimentally, however, for unsaturated olefinic molecules, inter- action with Brnsted acid sites often results in oligomerization. Hence, exper- imental measurements for olefin adsorption are challenging and are typically undertaken at low temperatures and low pressures to minimize secondary reactions.
Spoto et al. (163) studied ethene and propene oligomerization on HZSM-5 using FTIR spectroscopy while collecting 7 interferograms per second at 4 cm21 resolution. The fast collection enabled the adsorption process to be cate- gorized into three intervals (A) immediately after dosage up to a contact time not exceeding 10s, that probes the structure of the primary interaction, (B) up to a contact time of 1.5 minutes, that probes the initial stages of oligomeriza- tion, and (C) up to several hours, that discusses the long time behavior of the reaction. In regime (A), a frequency shift for the Brnsted acid sites (3610 cm21 band) and the ethylene molecule were found, while no perturbation of the external silanol groups (3746 cm21 band) was observed. The observed perturbations were attributed to the formation of a 1:1 p-complex as shown in Figure 5; resulting in a red-shift of 389 cm21 for the O-H Brnsted acid site stretching frequency and reduced symmetry of the adsorbed C2H4 as well as reduced density of charge on the carbon-carbon double bond (measured by the 11 cm21 downward shift of the n(C5 5C) bond). The short term oligomerization data showed the appearance of characteristic modes of CH3 and CH2 saturated groups, indicating that protonation and polymeriz- ation processes have occurred. The absence of -CH(CH3)2 and -C(CH3)3 species inferred from the IR spectra as well as the high intensity ratio I(CH2)/I(CH3) and noting that the specific intensity is higher for CH3 groups Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 45 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 indicated that primarily linear species were formed in the initial time period of 7-30 s. Similar observations regarding the propensity of HZSM-5 to form linear products have been postulated on the basis of NMR studies (89). At longer times on stream, oligomeric products with branched chains could also be dis- cerned. For propylene a higher red-shift (from 3610 cm21 to 3070 cm21) as well as considerably more oligomerization was found.
On the basis of isotopic H/D labeling studies at low temperatures some researchers (164169) suggest a more complex energy profile for olefin adsorp- tion. The proposed energy profile involves interaction of the alkyl group with the Brnsted acid site (I), non-activated transition from this state to a state where the alkene molecule interacts primarily with the zeolite walls (II), an un-activated transition from state (II) to a complex involving interaction of the alkyl group with the Brnsted acid site (III), and finally an activated tran- sition from state (III) to the p-complex involving interaction of the olefinic double bond with the Brnsted acid site. In agreement with other researchers (90, 93), these authors also find alkenyl carbenium ions upon adsorption of cyclic compounds where delocalization and steric considerations result in stable carbenium ion like species. The reader is referred to an excellent review of carbenium ion species in zeolites by Kiricsi et al. for additional infor- mation on this topic (170).
Kofke and Gorte (40) have used temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) and thermogravimetric analysis (TPD-TGA) with gas chromatographic analysis to study the low-temperature reaction of ethene, propene and 2-methyl-2-propanol in HZSM-5. Propene was observed to oligomerize at 295 K, 2-methyl-2-propanol was also observed to adsorb and dehydrate at 295 K, while ethylene reacted only at temperatures higher than 370 K. Essen- tially identical TPD product distributions from all three adsorbates suggested that the cracking and alkylation of similar oligomeric species was involved.
Although these studies cannot directly examine the nature of the surface Figure 5: The interaction of the electron rich double bond with the electron deficient Brnsted acid site of the zeolite results in the formation of a physisorbed p-complex adapted from Spoto et al. [163]. Reproduced by permission of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
46 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 species on the catalyst, the observed product distribution was consistent with carbenium ion reactions.
Following the initial pioneering work from Kazansky and coworkers, a number of ab initio studies have addressed the protonation of olefinic molecules in zeolites. Viruela-Martin et al. (171) showed that propene and isobutene adsorption on zeolites involved the formation of a p-complex that is transformed to an alkoxide species by a carbenium-ion-like transition state (SCF/3-21G level of theory on a 3 T cluster). The mechanism involved two lattice oxygen atoms,and hence, the authors concluded that Brnsted acidic centers should always be considered in conjunction with neighboring basic lattice oxygen sites. The computed physisorption energies matched up well with experimental values,however, the activation energy calculated far exceeded values obtained by Aronson et al. (89). Even though the terminal atoms were not constrained to mimic a particular zeolite framework, the authors mention that heterogeneity of sites within a zeolite structure may arise due to varying local geometry. Sig- nificantly higher activation energies compared to measured experimental values were also reported by Evleth et al. (172) for ethylene, propylene, and acetylene adsorption on small 1 T and 2 T zeolite clusters using AM1 and PM3 semi-empirical methods and ab initio MP2/6-31G level calculations.
In a combined theoretical (at the DFT level of theory using a 6 T cluster) and 13C MAS NMR experimental study, Nicholas et al. (173) have addressed the interaction of propene with various solid acid catalysts. In agreement with other theoretical studies described, the authors predict the formation of a physisorbed p-complex and an alkoxide species upon proton transfer with the net charge on the C3H7 fragment to be 0.44 e. The NMR experiments show that propene does not undergo complete label scrambling in HZSM-5 demonstrating that the isopropyl cation does not exist in the zeolite cavity in contrast to true superacids such as SbF5 and AlBr3 that result in complete label scrambling.
Rigby et al. (84, 174) have shown that the four different alkoxides of methylbutane have similar energies, with no particular ordering reflecting their primary, secondary and tertiary nature. The differences in activation energies for the adsorption of propene as primary and secondary alkoxides of 27 kJ/mol and iso-butene as primary and tertiary alkoxides of 50 kJ/mol,were significantly greater than the corresponding reaction heats of 12.5 and
15.5 kJ/mol. The authors suggest that the broad predictions of the carbenium
ion model are successful due to an ordering of the transition states rather than an ordering of the neutral alkoxide species. Similar observations about neutral alkoxide intermediates, bifunctional nature of the active site, as well as reactiv- ity being dictated by the carbenium ion characteristics of the transition state have been made by other researchers (86, 175, 176).
For the protonation of ethene, propene, 1-butene, and iso-butene on uni- dimensional theta-1 zeolite Boronat et al. (85, 95) observed a destabilization Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 47 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 of the alkoxide intermediates compared to the physisorbed p-complex. The formation of the covalent C-O bond was hindered due to enforced structural constraints of the rigid zeolite lattice, and hence, the authors cautioned against comparing adsorption energies on structurally different zeolites. Acti- vation energies on the other hand, did not show a significant dependence on the local geometry of the active site because unlike alkoxide adsorbed species, tran- sition states were found to have high ionic character and therefore were mainly stabilized by the negative potential of the zeolite wall. A DFT study by Correa and Mota (159) has also confirmed the significance of steric effects on the stab- ility of the alkoxy species. A comparison for the protonation of butene isomers on a generic 3T cluster showed that the t-alkoxy species was the least stable adsorbate. While local structural effects are observed to destabilize the alkoxide species, the inclusion of long range Madelung effects has been shown to enhance the stability of the alkoxide species (177).
Rozanska et al. (178) have presented a systematic study for understanding relaxation effects pertaining to the local environment of the active site when studying propene chemisorption in acidic chabazite. The authors compare the energy of the p-complex, the activation barrier, and the alkoxide complex, for a fully relaxed cluster and for a cluster when all the zeolite atoms except the aluminum and the four oxygen atoms around it, are fixed.
The physisorption energy was not affected by cluster relaxation, however,the activation energy increased from 57 to 91 kJ/mol upon constraining the zeolite lattice. This results in the transition from the adsorbed p-complex to the adsorbed alkoxide species becoming endothermic, an observation also made by Benco et al. (179). Although no single bond distance, bond angle or dihedral angle was identified as the primary cause, this study also demon- strates that the adsorbate configuration and corresponding charge density,and heat of adsorption are sensitive to the local zeolite structure. In another study, Rozanska et al. (180) have compared isobutene chemisorption on chaba- zite (CHA), ZSM-22 (TON) and mordenite (MOR) and shown that short-range electrostatic contributions are important for the stabilization of the carbocatio- nic transition state. The activation energy was found to be the smallest in the case of an optimum fit of the transition state complex shape with zeolite micro- pore size. Hence, large pore zeolites like MOR may stabilize the transition state only to a limited extent, while small pore zeolites may induce steric constraints to destabilize the transition state.
Recently, our work (27) on alkoxide formation from propene and hexene in HZSM-5 has addressed the effects of carbon number, proton siting, aluminum siting, and bonding configuration (primary versus secondary) of the alkoxide intermediate. We report a novel reaction path for propene chemisorption,whereby the primary alkoxide is bonded to the Brnsted host oxygen rather than a neighboring lattice oxygen. We also observe different alkoxide adsorp- tion energies at different lattice positions (Aluminum substitution at the T4
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
48 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 versus T12 sites) in HZSM-5, thereby confirming that the energy of the adsor- bate depends on the local zeolite geometry. In agreement with Rozanska et al.
(178) we also find changes in the first shell of oxygen atoms surrounding the aluminum site at the transition state geometry and note that the aluminum hosting the Brnsted site or the alkoxide always has a longer Al-O bond length. Recent in situ EXAFS experiments for ethene chemisorption on H-Y zeolite, from van Bokhoven et al. (181) have also confirmed a 0.2 A longer aluminum-oxygen bond length for the oxygen that binds the proton, in excel- lent agreement with our theoretical predictions.
In summary, although experimental and theoretical studies have con- firmed that olefin adsorption occurs in a concerted manner, with proton transfer from the Brnsted acid site onto a carbon atom of the olefin double bond with the simultaneous formation of the C-O bond, it has now become apparent that the activation barriers and adsorbate complexes are a function of the local zeolite geometry. Hence, measured experimental values or those calculated based on kinetic models probably represent an average value. In general, if the charge on the basic zeolite lattice oxygen atom is not sterically inaccessible alkoxide intermediates are formed; however, the delocalization of charge is a function of the local geometry of the zeolite and hydrocarbon species that exist as alkoxides in a particular zeolite may exist as carbenium ions in another.
3.1.3.
b-scission/Oligomerization Olefin interconversion and cyclization are known to occur at temperatures in the range 473673 K on HZSM-5, indicating the much higher reactivity of olefins compared to the corresponding paraffins. Cracking of olefins at the higher temperatures used for light paraffin aromatization (773 K) presents experimental challenges due to high reaction rates. The term conjunct polymer- ization was coined by Pines (182) to describe the products of acid-catalyzed reactions of olefins involving successive oligomerization/cracking cycles. An example of the complexity of this chemistry can be seen from the work of Quann et al. (183).
Abbot and Wojciechowski (184) studied the cracking of C5-C9 alkenes on HZSM-5 at 678 K, and based on the observed product distributions, concluded that pentene and hexene cracked by a dimerization-cracking route, while C7-C9 could undergo unimolecular cracking. Bessel and Seddon (185) found that ethene and propene conversion over HZSM-5 involves successive oligomeriza- tion/cracking cycles resulting in the formation of intermediate C4 and C5 olefins. In studying the isomerization and hydrocracking of C9-C16 paraffins on a Pt/HZSM-5 catalyst, Weitkamp et al. (186) introduced terminology which is useful in organizing the various types of C-C bond cleavage reactions for carbenium ions. Buchanan et al. (187) have further extended this nomencla- ture and have studied the relative rates of various types of b-scission reactions Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 49 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 for C5-C8 olefins over HZSM-5 at 783 K under low hydrocarbon partial pressure conditions and high silica/alumina (SiO2/Al2O3  650) ratios to minimize the effects of bimolecular reactions. For each feed, Buchanan et al. (187) have enumerated all the plausible b-scission reactions and related these steps to the observed product distribution to obtain relative rates for the various modes of b-scission. The appreciable abundance of isomers prior to appreciable cracking of the olefin feed evidenced the facile adsorption/desorption process for olefins relative to cracking. The product distribution for hexene and heptene was found to be independent of the particular olefin fed, indicating that isomerization was rapid compared to cracking. For C8 olefins the observed product distribution could not be rationalized by the most energeti- cally favored tertiary-tertiary cracking mechanism due to steric hindrance in forming the highly branched C8 structure within the zeolite pores. Although only relative rates for the various modes of b-scission are presented, this excel- lent study allows for a semi-quantitative description of the b-scission reaction in terms of carbenium ion mechanisms based on the observed product distri- bution for C5-C8 olefins.
Rigby et al. (84), Frash and van Santen (188), and Frash et al. (189) have investigated the mechanism of the b-scission reaction using DFT and ab initio Hartree-Fock calculations. On generic 1T and 3T clusters, complex potential energy surfaces for the cracking of but-1-oxy and pent-1-oxy were found.
Three possible reaction paths were found: one-step via the ringlike tran- sition state (RL); two-step via the hydrogen-bonded transition state and sub- stituted cyclopropane (HBCP); and one-step via the hydrogen-bonded transition state (HB). The lowest energy path was the HBCP pathway that warrants initial formation of the new C-C bond followed by simultaneous cleavage of two C-C bonds. The existence of a cyclopropane species has also been proposed by Sie (190192) to explain the observed product distribution for cracking of longer chain paraffinic molecules. Van Santen et al. found the transition state to possess significant ionic character (0.8 e), while the reactants and products were found to be neutral alkoxide species (0.4 e).
Activation energies were found to decrease with increasing carbon number.
The activation barrier however, was overestimated in each case due to the small clusters used.
Hay et al. (193) investigated the b-scission of pentene and branched methyl pentene in the gas phase as well as after adsorption on a generic 3 T cluster using the HF/6-31G and B3LYP/6-31G methods. Branching was calculated to result in a decrease of 25 kJ/mol for the activation barrier, while the overall reaction was endothermic in the amount of 80 kJ/mol for both mol- ecules. The activation barriers calculated were of the order of 230 kJ/mol and are significantly higher than values calculated from experimental studies.
Svelle et al. (194) found concerted and stepwise mechanisms for the dimer- ization of ethene, propene, 1-butene, and trans-2-butene over a generic 4 T
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
50 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 cluster at the B3LYP/6-31G(d) level of theory. The stepwise mechanism involves the interaction of an adsorbed alkoxide intermediate with an olefin,while the concerted mechanism postulates that protonation and C-C bond for- mation occur simultaneously with the initial state being two physisorbed olefinic molecules. The activation energy for the concerted mechanism was found to lie between the two barriers of the stepwise mechanism, which suggests that the concerted dimerization mechanism would be prevalent.
However, if the chemisorption reaction to form the alkoxide, for which the lowest barrier is found, is driven to completion, then every acidic site has an adsorbed alkoxide and the concerted route is blocked. The energy barrier for the step-wise reaction is high simply because alkoxide formation results in an energy well from which further progress of the reaction requires overcoming a significant energy barrier. Thus, the relative energies of the physisorbed and chemisorbed alkenes determine the prevalent mechanism, and a general trend for C2-C4 olefins was not observed. Vos et al. (195) and Arstad et al. (196, 197) have also proposed a similar concerted reaction pathway involving both reactant species physisorbed on the Brnsted acid site for alkylation of aro- matics by olefins. We mention here that each of the theoretical studies described above was done on clusters that did not specifically mimic any par- ticular zeolite lattice structure, hence, local relaxation effects that have been shown to have a significant effect on the energy of the adsorbed alkoxide inter- mediate, may also significantly alter the energy profile for the b-scission and oligomerization reactions.
In summary, although the major features of the observed product distri- bution for the b-scission reaction can be described in terms of carbenium ion chemistry, theoretical studies have shown that the reaction profile is complex. Additionally, the effects of local zeolite geometry on the reaction mechanism and the corresponding energetics have still not been addressed in the literature.
3.1.4.
Hydride Transfer and Alkylation Reactions Hydride transfer is a bimolecular reaction involved in the chain transfer process after the formation of the adsorbed alkoxide intermediate and can be represented as shown in Eq. (3) with H representing the Brnsted acid site of the zeolite.
CmH2m  H  CnH2n2 ! CmH2m2  CnH2n  H 3 To our knowledge this reaction has not been isolated experimentally and kinetics of hydride transfer steps are typically inferred from kinetic models.
Theoretical studies have in this case been of great utility and have allowed researchers to gain mechanistic insight as well as kinetic parameters for these reactions.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 51 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 Investigators (198201) have studied five examples of the hydride transfer reaction at the MP2(fc)/6-31G/ /HF/6-31G level of theory on a 1 T cluster. The examples considered were: (i) methane-methyl (18 ! 18), (ii) ethyl-ethane (18 ! 18), (iii) s-propyl-propane (28 ! 28), (iv) t-butyl-propane (38 ! 28), and (v) t-butyl-isobutane (38 ! 38). According to the authors, the hydride transfer reaction involves the attack of a paraffin on the covalently bonded surface alkoxide intermediate, resulting in a polarization and elongation of the C-O alkoxy bond. The activation barriers calculated were (i) 278 (ii) 236 and (iii)(v) 196200 kJ/mol respectively. The enhanced steric repulsions due to the bulkier transition state for the 38 ! 28 and 38 ! 38 hydride transfer reactions were attributed to result in similar acti- vation barriers for (iii)(v). The geometry and charge of the transition state closely resemble that of a non-classical penta-coordinated carbonium ion species. At the transition state (see Figure 6) the two molecules are connected by a central hydrogen atom with small positive or even negative charge, which gives rise to the hydridic nature of the reaction. Although these studies were performed on 1 T clusters more representative of alumina sites or extra- framework aluminum sites and the activation barriers computed were much higher in comparison with those inferred from kinetic models, these compu- tational studies represent the first characterization of the hydride transfer reactions.
Boronat and coworkers (202204) have also investigated hydride transfer reactions using density functional theory. Initial calculations (202) for (C3H7- H-C3H7) interacting with a 3 T cluster at the B3PW91/6-31G level of Figure 6: Schematic illustration of the hydride transfer reaction between CH4 and a CH3
species adapted from Kazansky et al. [199]. Reprinted with permission from [199]. Copyright (1997) Springer Science and Business Media.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
52 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 theory gave a true activation barrier of 138 kJ/mol, in better agreement with kinetic studies. In a later study, Boronat et al. (204) have studied the (C2H5- H-C2H5) carbonium ion as a reaction intermediate in presence of a 3 T cluster. Besides hydride transfer with an activation barrier of 150 kJ/mol at the B3PW91/6-31G level, and slightly higher (171 kJ/mol) at the MP2 level, the authors also find that an alkylation reaction occurs. Alkylation here refers to the decomposition of the (C2H5-H-C2H5) carbonium ion species into an n-butane molecule and regeneration of the Brnsted acid site.
This pathway is found to have an activation barrier similar to that computed for hydrogen transfer and the overall reaction is thermodynamically favored due to the 125 kJ/mol exothermicity of the reaction (see Figure 7). The rearrangement required for formation of CH4 and C3H7 via the disproportiona- tion reaction was however, found to be energetically unfavorable. These studies suggest a common intermediate for hydride transfer, disproportionation and alkylation reactions between adsorbed olefins and alkanes.
In summary, theoretical calculations have determined initial structures for activated complexes and associated barriers for hydride transfer reactions,however, details regarding effects of carbon number, and local zeolite geometry, hydride transfer reactions involving allylic adsorbed species for dehydrogenation reactions resulting in the formation of products like benzene, toluene, etc., have not yet been addressed in the literature.
3.1.5.
Cyclization Dehydrocyclodimerization, the conversion of light olefins (C2-C4) to aro- matics is often carried out over bifunctional catalysts containing acidic and dehydrogenation components. However, cyclization and aromatization also occur over purely acidic zeolites as well. It is postulated that cyclization Figure 7: Potential energy profiles for hydride transfer, alkylation and disproportionation of a [C2H5-H-C2H5] complex reproduced from Boronat et al. (204). Reproduced by permission of the PCCP Owner Societies.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 53 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 involves an equilibrium between 5- and 6-membered ring species although 5-membered ring species are not observed in any significant concentration in the product distribution. Experimental verification of the elementary steps in zeolite catalyzed cyclization mechanisms has remained largely elusive due to the simultaneous secondary reactions. A general scheme based on carbe- nium ion chemistry is typically considered, as shown in Figure 8. Cyclization is presumed to occur with the attack of the positive carbon formed upon proto- nation of a diene on to the remaining carbon-carbon double bond. The resulting alkylcyclopenta- carbenium ions then undergoes successive hydride transfer reactions, forming a stable 38 carbenium ion, which then undergoes ring expansion.
Based on extensive 13C NMR and theoretical studies for the Methanol-to- Gasoline (MTG) system, researchers (93, 205208) have shown the existence of persistent carbenium ions in zeolites. These NMR studies reveal only cyclic, resonance stabilized tertiary cations to persist on these catalysts and the authors have postulated these species to be critical surface intermediates in the hydrocarbon pool mechanism for MTG. Although these species undergo facile alkylation and dealkylation reactions resulting in C-C bond for- mation for MTG chemistry, it is not apparent, whether these species are pre- cursors to formation of C6 and higher aromatics directly or whether ring- expansion proceeds via other pentacyclic carbenium ion species, particularly in light of theoretical studies that have predicted a high energy barrier for cyclization via a tertiary carbenium ion species (207, 209).
Based on semi-empirical calculations for isomerization of the cyclohexy- lium ion to 1-methycyclopentylium ion and the 1-methylcyclohexylium ion to 1-ethylcyclopentylium ion, Viruela-Martin et al. (210, 211) have postulated the existence of two slightly different protonated cyclopropane bicyclic inter- mediates for ring expansion and contraction. Our recent study (209) discusses various cyclization mechanisms for hexadiene cyclization via carbenium ion species in absence of the zeolite and confirms the existence of a bicyclo inter- mediate for ring-expansion.
Figure 8: Proposed scheme for cyclization via a pentacyclic carbenium ion species that undergoes ring expansion.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
54 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 We briefly discuss our results here and the reader is referred to the original publication (209) for additional details. We have examined three pathways for cyclization of the gas phase C6H11 carbenium ion species shown in Figure 9: (i) 15 ring closure followed by successive hydride transfer reactions to result in a secondary carbenium ion that undergoes ring expansion via a bicyclic inter- mediate (ii) 15 ring closure followed by successive hydride transfer reactions to result in a tertiary carbenium ion that subsequently also undergoes ring expansion and (iii) direct 1,6 ring closure without the formation of a cyclopentyl intermediate. For gas phase cyclization investigated at B3LYP/6-311  G(2d,p) level of theory, we find reaction path (i) to be the preferred pathway due to the secondary nature of the transition state (Path II shown in Figure 9). Our initial calculations for C6 alkoxides show that the relative stability of the alkoxide intermediates is 18 . 28 . 38.
We attribute this reversal in ordering compared to the analogous gas phase species to steric repulsions and hence longer C-O alkoxy bond lengths for 28 and 38 alkoxide species.
Recently Joshi and Thomson (212) have presented a comprehensive study of C6 diene cyclization in HZSM-5 employing the embedded cluster QM/MM methodology.
They investigated cyclization mechanisms for different adsorbed configurations of C6 (physisorbed, 18 chemisorbed alkoxide and 28 chemisorbed alkoxide) and concluded that primary alkoxide intermediates undergo cyclization via 16 ring-closure while secondary alkoxide intermedi- ates undergo 15 ring closure followed by ring expansion. It is observed that Figure 9: Cyclization pathways of a hexadiene species via carbenium ion pathways adapted from Joshi et al. [209]. Reprinted with permission from [209]. Copyright (2004) American Chemical Society.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 55 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 site accessibility and strain in the 5-membered ring species rather than the primary or secondary nature are the primary drivers for the activation barrier. Joshi and Thomson have also compared activation barriers for C6, C7 and C8 cyclization (213) and found that 16 ring closure for C6 species has a 29 kJ/mol higher activation energy compared to C7 and C8 species. This result perhaps explains the high selectivity to toluene observed for propane aromatization experimentally. We have incorporated relative activation barriers from the above DFT studies in our microkinetic model (214) and have successfully predicted the experimentally observed benzene, toluene and xylene production for propane aromatization over HZSM-5 over a wide range of space time and temperature values.
We note that although the formation of hexatriene and thermal cyclization has been noted for noble metal catalysts, in agreement with Meriaudeau and Naccache (215), we seek to distinguish the mechanism for cyclization over acidic zeolites from bifunctional noble metal catalysts that form metallocy- cloalkane intermediates and are efficient for aromatization. Meriaudeau and Naccache (215) also note that in starting from n-hexane and n-heptane, the major aromatic products were not benzene and toluene respectively, but were composed of a mixture of benzene, toluene and xylenes. The chemical compo- sition was closer to that expected from thermodynamics, implying that ring closure is not the primary mechanism for aromatics production instead,several fragmentation and C-C bond formation cycles occur prior to ring closure.
To summarize, probing cyclization mechanisms remains experimentally challenging. Recent DFT calculations from Joshi et al. (212) are providing the initial mechanistic insights for this complex reaction pathway. These studies enable description of the observed lower selectivity of benzene compared to toluene and have provided adsorption and activation energies for kinetic modeling efforts.
3.1.6.
Toluene Disproportionation The acid catalyzed disproportionation of alkylbenzenes has been exten- sively investigated. The selective disproportionation of toluene to para- xylene and benzene exploiting the shape-selective characteristics of ZSM-5 has been studied by several researchers (216227). A review of this extensive literature is beyond the scope of this work, and the reader is referred to two review publications on the disproportionation reaction of alkylbenzenes (224, 226) for a broader discussion of this topic. We instead comment briefly only on studies that attempt to probe the mechanism for this reaction.
Three different mechanisms have been proposed for toluene disproportio- nation viz., (i) the methyl transfer mechanism (ii) the diphenylmethane mech- anism and (iii) the dissociative mechanism.
These mechanisms are schematically depicted in Figure 10.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
56 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 Figure 10: (a) Schematic description of the methyl transfer mechanism for toluene disproportionation adapted from Xiong et al. [222]. Reprinted with permission from [222].
Copyright (1995) American Chemical Society; (b) Schematic description of the diphenylmethane mechanism adapted from Xiong et al. [222]. Reprinted with permission from [222]. Copyright (1995) American Chemical Society; (c) Schematic of Alkyl Transfer mechanism adapted from Uguina et al. [368]. Reprinted with permission from [368]. Copyright (1993) American Chemical Society.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 57 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 Most of the evidence for these mechanisms is derived from fitting kinetic models for the observed product distribution, however, rigorous interpretation of the kinetics is difficult due to concurrent coking and deactivation, and hence time on stream dependence of the observed kinetics. Xiong et al. (222) have investigated toluene disproportionation over HZSM-5 using a 1:9 molar ratio of toluene-a, a, a-d3: toluene to determine the mechanism based on the fate of the deuterium label. A one-to-one stoichiometry for benzene and xylene was observed in the product stream as well as an equilibrium distribution of the three xylene isomers. A primary kinetic isotope effect (kH/kD  1.88) was noted for the disproportionation reaction and was ascribed by the authors to a symmetrical linear transition state corresponding to colinearity of the migrating H between its origin and terminus. Stoichiometric consumption of diphenylmethane was also observed upon its addition to a toluene feed. The enhanced rate for reaction upon introduction of diphenylmethane was attribu- ted to removal of the induction period due to a higher population of chain carriers. The authors concluded that the large kinetic isotope effect as well as stoichiometric consumption of diphenylmethane was consistent with mech- anism (ii).
Rozanska et al. (228, 229) have investigated the intermolecular isomeriza- tion and transalkylation reaction of aromatic species by acidic zeolites using computational methods. The direct transalkylation pathway over a 4 T cluster involves toluene activation to form a phenoxy intermediate, weak co-adsorption of benzene and reaction of the alkoxy species with the co-adsorbed benzene. The activation barrier for the direct transalkylation mechanism was calculated to be 277 kJ/mol. The diphenylmethane intermedi- ate mechanism is limited by the attack of the zeolite Brnsted acid site on the methyl group of toluene resulting in the formation of hydrogen and a benzyl alkoxy species calculated to have an activation barrier of 297 kJ/mol. Sub- sequent reactions were calculated to be facile as the benzyl alkoxy species is relatively unstable. Although these calculations do not account for steric effects of the zeolite, they provide an initial analysis of competitive pathways involved in transalkylation reactions.
The MTG literature has significantly enhanced our understanding of alky- lation and dealkylation reactions of cyclic species. 13C MAS NMR and theoreti- cal studies from Haw and coworkers for the conversion of methanol have shown the existence of persistent cyclopentenyl cations (207, 208, 230, 231). These NMR measurements, done in a pulse quench reactor, revealed the 1,3- dimethylcyclopentenyl carbenium ion to be stable on HZSM-5 and the authors state that the existence of this intermediate eliminates the observed kinetic induction period. Based on DFT studies for gas phase species at the B3LYP/6-311G level of theory (207), these authors note that the diene species formed upon deprotonation of the above-mentioned pentacyclic cation has a lower activation barrier for methylation compared to ethylene, propylene
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
58 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 or toluene. The facile alkylation and dealkylation reactions of substituted cyclic species were hence proposed to result in the formation of C-C bonds for MTG chemistry. Based on a combined NMR and theoretical study of toluene alky- lation Ivanova and Corma (232) concluded that physisorbed methanol as well as methoxy species were able to alkylate toluene, with the rate being faster for the physisorbed methanol species.
Recent theoretical studies by Vos et al. (195, 233) and Arstad et al. (196) have proposed a concerted reaction pathway for the alkylation of aromatic mol- ecules by methanol, ethylene and propene with simultaneous adsorption of the olefin and the aromatic molecule and alkylation occurring by proton transfer to the alkene with concurrent C-C bond formation between the alkene and the aromatic molecule. Subsequently, the acid site is regenerated by H donation from the aromatic molecule to the zeolite cluster. In general, a lower activation barrier for the alkylation reaction was noted with increasing substitution on the aromatic molecule and with propylene as the olefinic reactant compared to ethylene. The above mechanism stands out in that it does not involve the for- mation of an alkoxide intermediate and reaction is proposed to occur directly from physisorbed intermediate species. We note again that 4 T clusters were employed for each of the above studies and suspect that the energies calculated in the above studies will change when larger clusters or embedded cluster methodologies are employed.
In summary, although several modified ZSM-5 formulations have been developed to enhance the para-selectivity for toluene disproportionation, only recently theoretical studies have elucidated the novel reaction pathways invol- ving physisorbed intermediates for alkylation and dealkylation of aromatic species. We note that the above alkylation and dealkylation reactions could also represent the disproportionation of alkylaromatics.
3.2.
Kinetic Modeling Studies of Alkane Cracking As discussed above, hydrocarbon chemistry over acidic zeolites involves a large number of reactions. Besides alkane activation via a carbocationic tran- sition state, a number of secondary reactions including hydride transfer,b-scission/oligomerization, cyclization, etc. are involved. The product distri- bution for a given feedstock is dependent on the relative rates of elementary steps under the given reaction conditions and the properties of the solid acid catalyst. In light of the complexity of crude oil composition and the importance of fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) to the refining industry, a large number of studies have been devoted to developing comprehensive and reliable models for this chemistry to enable extrapolation and optimal plant operation. For an exten- sive review of the early literature on catalytic cracking the reader is referred to a review by Corma and Wojciechowski (234). The mechanism of propane aromati- zation over HZSM-5 catalysts closely resembles that of paraffin cracking over Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 59 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 solid acid catalysts. An extensive discussion of paraffin cracking mechanisms is outside the scope of this work however, we present a short review of the modeling efforts for paraffin cracking, before extending this discussion to modeling of propane aromatization over ZSM-5 based catalysts.
For describing the chemistry of petroleum mixtures with thousands of distinct molecular species, Quann and Jaffe (235, 236) have developed a method called Structure-Oriented Lumping (SOL) wherein individual hydro- carbon molecules are represented as a vector of incremental structural features. For example, the A6 group represents the six carbon aromatic ring present in all aromatic molecules, while the A4 group represents a four carbon aromatic ring increment attached to an A6 group to construct con- densed multi-ring structures such as naphthalene. These groups can be con- sidered as basis vectors and hence, each molecule within a mixture can be represented by a structure vector in terms of this basis. Chemical reactions can then be considered as vector transformations that map the structure vector of the reactant to that of the product. Molecular thermodynamic proper- ties can also be estimated by incorporating existing group contribution methods within this formalism. The kinetics are based on the stoichiometry and stability of the reactants and products, implying that the nature of the solid acid catalyst was not accounted for in this study. This formalism allows for composition-based modeling of refinery processes containing a very large number of species (especially considering that a C20 n-paraffin generates 417 iso-paraffins and 6417 olefins). Subsequent work in this area has resulted in extending SOL to develop an integrated model for the FCC process incorporat- ing reaction chemistry, hydrodynamics and heat integration (237) as well as developing detailed composition based models for predicting octane and cetane numbers for various gasoline blends (238). Although this approach is very advantageous for complex petroleum mixtures, for the light paraffin aro- matization system typically such complexity is not encountered. Hence, most modeling studies have incorporated the catalyst structure into the kinetics in view of the simpler product distribution.
Researchers (184, 239247) have employed analysis of selectivity data to con- struct reaction pathways for alkane cracking over solid acid catalysts. They have categorized the observed product distribution into six categories: (1) stable primary, (2) unstable primary, (3) stable primary plus secondary product, (4) stable secondary, (5) unstable secondary, and (6) unstable primary plus second- ary. For analysis purposes the authors have employed a number of terms.
1.
Optimum Performance Envelope (OPE): Plots of the time-average yields of the various products versus total conversion of the reactant. The OPE describes the behavior of the product as catalyst decay approaches zero.
A product is considered primary if the slope at the origin of such a curve
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
60 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 is non-zero and secondary if the slope is zero when extrapolated to zero conversion.
2.
Reaction Path Probability (RPP): Procedure of solving the reaction system matrix to obtain probabilities of various reaction pathways by selecting the sum of initiation reactions as the objective function in a constrained solution of the set of linear equations. Since the production of any product in a complex series-parallel reaction network may involve several operating elementary reactions, the above formalism appropriately considers the initial molar selectivity of a product as the sum of contri- butions from all operating reactions with the RPP of an elementary reaction being defined as the fraction of total conversion which proceeds via that one elementary reaction.
3.
Bond Cleavage Probability (BCP): Comparison of the probabilities of various C-H and C-C bond scissions. Hence, in equation form BCPi RPPi/P i RPPi.
4.
Kinetic Chain Length (KCL): A ratio of the overall reaction rate to the initiation rate.
Wojciechowski (248) has presented an excellent review of the above studies and individually discussed the effects of acid strength, carbon number, and volume expansion as well as provided a conceptual framework for including elementary reactions and deactivation pathways in an attempt to quantitat- ively describe catalytic cracking of hydrocarbons. The work of Zhao et al.
(243245, 247) has described the reactions of 2- and 3-methylpentane over USY zeolite in terms of the following reactions.
1.
Chain initiation: by carbonium-ion-like penta-coordinated species includ- ing C-C and C-H bond cleavage
C6H14  HS
k0 C6H 15 ! kin CnH2n1S  C6nH26n2 n  2; 6
2.
Chain transfer: isomerization and b-scission reactions involving carbe- nium ion intermediates CnH2n1S nkin inkn i  CnH2n1S CjH2j1S ! jkin CnH2n1S  C jnH2 jn 6  j  6  n
3.
Chain propagation: bimolecular hydride transfer reactions CnH2n1S  C6H14 ! nk2j CjH2j1S  C6njH26nj2 j  n Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 61 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013
4.
Chain termination: olefin desorption reactions regenerating the Brnsted acid site CnH2n1S nko okn CnH2n  HS 2  n  6 As can be deduced from the above equations, each initiation and chain propagation event produces one molecule of paraffinic product. Thus, the total selectivity for paraffinic products must be at least one. On the other hand, the sum of olefin selectivities could be less than or greater than one since olefins appear in all termination reactions and b-scission cracking reac- tions but no olefins are produced in chain propagation reactions.
The kinetics are interpreted in terms of five parameters: (i) a parameter related to the sum of the rates of all initial reactions occurring via both mono- molecular and chain processes, (ii) a parameter related to the initial rates of bimolecular processes alone, (iii) a parameter which reflects the relative values of adsorption constants of the reactants and products, and (iv) and (v) related to modeling the deactivation behavior. For 2-methylpentane cracking over HZSM-5 significant isomerization with little concurrent hydrogen pro- duction was noted at 673 K while as temperature was increased the contri- bution of unimolecular reactions was observed to increase. Upon dilution with nitrogen, the contributions of bimolecular reactions as well as catalyst decay were observed to decrease and the KCL was observed to decrease from
3.4 to 2.5. In general, hydrogen production was observed to increase upon
branching, and b-scission reactions were found to be of minor importance in cracking of paraffins. For the cracking studies of n-nonane (242), the coverage and composition of the catalyst was observed to change significantly between 673 and 763 K due to a large difference in the enthalpy of adsorption between the products and the reactant, however, the contributions from unimolecular and bimolecular reactions could not be distinguished from the kinetic data.
For all the above studies, the individual reaction rates were calculated by taking the product of the RPP and the initial overall rate of consumption of the reactant. Excellent agreement between experimental data and model pre- dictions was observed, although only data for the consumption of the reactant were generally presented. Even though these models allow for understanding the initial selectivity behavior of the reactant alkane over USY zeolites, due to the model structure, the individual contributions of the reactions cannot be interpreted. Corma and coworkers (249, 250) have also reported conclusions in agreement with Wojciechowski and coworkers for isobutane cracking investi- gated over USYand cracking of C7, C10, C12, and C14 over USY, BEA, and ZSM-5 zeolites. The relative contribution of unimolecular pathways is observed to increase with increasing temperature and decreasing pore dimensions.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
62 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 Selectivity descriptors like olefin to paraffin ratio, linear to branched paraffin and olefin ratios are considered to infer these effects, however, individual reaction rates also remain inaccessible except for the initial alkane activation reactions. Two formalisms stand out with regard to interpretation of elementary reaction kinetics, and we discuss each of them below.
Investigators (251253) have developed the single-event concept and have successfully employed this scheme to understand the kinetics of a number of zeolite-catalyzed oil refining processes. Boolean relation matrices were used by these researchers to generate the large number of reactions involved. For octane hydroisomerization and hydrocracking (252) on a Pt-USY zeolite, the fol- lowing elementary steps were considered: physisorption of feed components in terms of the Langmuir isotherm, dehydrogenation of olefins over Pt sites,olefin protonation on Brnsted acid sites yielding carbenium ions which isomer- ize through hydride- and methyl-shifts and protanated-cylcopropane (PCP) branchings, and b-scission reactions of these carbenium ions. Dehydrogenation reactions occurring over metal sites were considered to be in equilibrium and rate limiting steps were postulated to occur on the acid sites in these models.
Individual site balances for the Brnsted acid and Pt sites were written based on the pseudo-state state and quasi-equilibrium assumptions. The number of parameters was reduced by (i) disregarding primary carbenium ions, (ii) employing thermodynamic constraints for reversible reactions, and (iii) consid- ering rate coefficients to be independent of chain length for a given carbenium ion species and only dependent on the nature (secondary or tertiary) of that species. The single-event rate constant is related to the elementary step rate coefficient as k0  ne k implying that the rate coefficient of an elementary step,k0 is a multiple of that of a single event, k. The number of single events is rep- resented by ne. The calculation of ne requires the configuration of the reactant and the transition state to be determined, as it considers the chirality of each of these configurations. It was assumed by the authors that the symmetry of the alkoxide adsorbate and the carbenium-ion-like transition state is perturbed to the same extent by interaction with the zeolite. We reproduce an example from Martens and Frorrent (252) for illustration purposes. In Figure 11,consider the methyl-shift from the 2-methyl-3 pentylcarbenium ion to the 3-methyl-2-pentylcarbenium ion for which in terms of elementary step kinetics the rate coefficient would be written: kMS0 (s;s).
Figure 11: Illustration of single event kinetics from the work of Froment and coworkers [253].
Reprinted with permission from [253]. Copyright (1999) Elsevier.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 63 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 Intuitively, for the forward reaction from left to right, two methyl-groups can shift, but only one for the reverse reaction from right to left. In other words: a different value would be calculated for kMS0 (s;s) depending on which isomer would be chosen for the experimental study. Hence, in addition to the characterization of the type of the carbenium ion (18, 28, or 38), the struc- tural multiplicity also needs to be accounted for.
Using replicate experimental data and hence a weighted least squares objective function, parameter optimization for the octane hydrocracking study was performed to obtain kinetic parameters. The values of the par- ameters suggest the following chemistry:
1.
tertiary carbenium ion species are formed more rapidly compared to sec- ondary carbenium ions on the Pt sites (kMS(t;t)  0.43  1011 vs. kMS(s;s)  0.18  1010 in (mol/(gcath)); and
2.
the cracking of tertiary carbenium ions to secondary carbenium ions on acidic sites is rapid, while secondary to tertiary cracking is slow (kcrack(- t;s)  0.88  1012 vs. kMS(s;t)  0.45  1006 in (mol/(gcath)).The single event approach allows detailed kinetic models to be developed for cracking on solid acid catalysts. These models are independent of the feedstock composition and incorporate the basic features of carbocation chemistry. Each of the studies above, however, focuses on modeling the behavior of the reactant.For complex hydrocarbon systems, we believe that modeling efforts that also obtain quantitative predictions for several other products may ensure unique- ness of the parameters, as well as the model elementary reactions.Dumesic and coworkers (254) have also employed similar quantitative modeling concepts and have used the term microkinetic analysis for their meth- odology. The idea behind microkinetic analysis is to describe, in terms of essen- tial surface chemistry, the trends observed in all available data for existing catalytic systems of relevance to the target catalytic process, as well as, to con- solidate in a quantitative fashion available experimental data, theoretical prin- ciples, and appropriate correlations relevant to the catalytic process. The fundamental starting point in microkinetic analysis is to postulate elementary reactions that capture the surface catalytic chemistry in terms of physical and chemical parameters which can be measured independently or estimated by means of theory. For an excellent review on microkinetic modeling that details several case studies and identifies various assumptions involved in different modeling methodologies, the reader is referred to a review by Stoltze (255).Initial work from Yaluris et al. (256, 257) developed a kinetic model for iso- butane cracking over Y zeolites. Carbenium ion species were considered as inter- mediates and a parameter DH, the heat of stabilization of a carbenium ion relative to the heat of stabilization of a proton in the zeolite framework, was
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
64 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 introduced to account for the different acidities of steamed and un-steamed catalysts. Pre-exponential factors were obtained using transition state theory,equilibrium constraints were used to obtain the reverse rate constant values and catalytic correlations like the Polanyi relation were employed to obtain a relatively simple 21-step-based predictive model for this system.
Sanchez-Castillo et al. (258, 259) and Agarwal et al. (260) have sub- sequently refined the above model over USY, H-MOR, and H-BEA as well as extended it to 2-methylhexane cracking. We focus our discussion on the reaction schemes of isobutane conversion. Reaction studies for isobutane con- version over USY were performed at a total pressure of one atmosphere for temperatures of 523 and 573 K. The temperatures used in the earlier work by Yaluris et al. (256, 257) were between 733 and 773 K, temperatures at which the reactions were initiated by the activation of isobutane. On the other hand the low temperature study by Sanchez-Castillo et al. (258) required initiation by co-feeding 50 to 400 ppm of isobutylene. Unlike the Yaluris et al. (256, 257) model, this model considers surface intermediates to be alkoxy intermediates that react via carbocationic transition states, in line with recent experimental and theoretical studies discussed in section 3.4.
The reaction scheme was developed based on the following reaction types:adsorption/desorption,oligomerization/b-scission,isomerization,hydride transfer, and initiation steps. Restricting the carbon number of species partici- pating in the reaction scheme to 12 resulted in a model containing 370 elemen- tary reactions. The model was found to have 277 unknowns, including 186 gas phase species, 90 surface species, and the fraction of vacant sites. Equilibrium constraints for reversible adsorption/desorption and oligomerization/ b-scission cycles, typical pre-exponential factors, equal reactivity of similar alkoxide intermediate states, and Bensons group contribution methods (261) as well as carbon number dependence for the enthalpy of formation of surface species were employed to reduce the number of bounded parameters to 11. The Athena Visual Workbench software was employed to obtain par- ameter estimates and 95% confidence limits.
The results from the kinetic model gave similar activation energies of
156.5 kJ/mol and 154.3 kJ/mol for the two initiation mechanisms to form
isobutyl and propyl surface species, respectively. The activation energies for the b-scission reaction were calculated to be 102.2 kJ/mol for 38 ! 38 and iden- tical 115.1 kJ/mol for 28 ! 38 and 28 ! 28 reactions. The activation barrier for hydride transfer reactions for C.5 was calculated to be 62.2 kJ/mol and based on the site balance, the surface was found to be have approximately 99% or greater vacant sites under reaction conditions, even at the lowest tempera- tures. Kotrel et al. (127, 128, 262) have investigated the cracking of n-hexane on HZSM-5, H-Y, and H-BEA zeolites and have also commented on the acidity of these materials. The intrinsic activation barrier calculated for mono- molecular cracking for n-hexane was calculated from data at low conversions Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 65 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 and found to be 161 kJ/mol which matches well with the values presented by Dumesic and coworkers. These authors however, point out that only about 15% of the Brnsted acid sites in USY zeolite are catalytically active for this reaction, whereas Dumesic and coworkers have considered every Brnsted acid site as an active site. Babitz et al. (126) and Williams et al. (263) have also investigated the monomolecular cracking of n-hexane over USY, MOR,and ZSM-5 zeolites and report that apparent differences in activation energies are due to the different heats of adsorption of n-hexane and, within experimental error the intrinsic activation energy for n-hexane cracking is 230 kJ/mol, independent of the pore structure. The 11-parameter model described by Sanchez-Castillo et al. (258) is observed to give good quantitative fits to the data, however, the trends observed in the experimental data are not always observed to be described by the model.
The above study also extends to determining the sensitivity of the kinetic model to various steps in the reaction scheme. We do not discuss here methods to determine the rate determining step in a reaction mechanism,and the reader is referred to the following publications for additional details (264268). Dumesic and coworkers have used the degree of rate control as defined by Campbell (264) shown in Eq. (4) where the partial derivative is taken holding constant the equilibrium constant for step i and the rate con- stants kj for all other steps j.
Xrc;i ki r
dr dki
4 The r refers to the overall rate of the reaction, in this case, the rate of con- sumption of isobutane. The most sensitive steps were found to involve hydride transfer of surface species with isobutane and oligomerization/b-scission steps involving C7 and C8 species. Isobutane activation was found to be kinetically significant only at high temperatures. Based on results from this sensitivity analysis, the authors were able to define a simplified kinetic model that included only 48 reaction steps. This simplified kinetic model employs par- ameters determined from the extended kinetic model and is observed to give results in general agreement with the full kinetic model.
In an additional study Sanchez-Castillo et al. (259) have extended the study of isobutane conversion over USY zeolites, to describe isobutane reactiv- ity over H-MOR and H-BEA zeolites. Under similar reaction conditions, the kinetic model is again observed to give quantitative predictions, although all the observed trends in the experimental data are not always emulated by the model predictions. A tabulated comparison of the obtained kinetic parameters over the three zeolite structures is shown in Table 1.
From the tabulated values in Table 1, it can be observed that the heat of adsorption of alkenes is significantly higher on H-MOR and H-BEA zeolites.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
66 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 This is also reflected in the much higher surface coverage, up to 52% and 63% on H-MOR and H-BEA respectively, predicted by the kinetic model under the same reaction conditions. Although the order of magnitude increase in iso- butane initiation reactions matches up well with experimental studies from Kotrel et al. (127), the intrinsic activation energies for n-hexane cracking reported by Kotrel et al. (127) are 161 kJ/mol on USY and 157 kJ/mol on H-BEA. The 30 kJ/mol difference in the heat of adsorption between USY and H-MOR is similar to the value reported by Babitz et al. (126), however, the intrinsic activation energies for n-hexane cracking reported in the latter study are at least 60 kJ/mol higher than the values reported by Sanchez- Castillo et al. (259) for isobutane cracking. The high paraffin/olefin ratio observed over H-MOR and H-BEA was attributed by the authors to the lower composite activation barrier for hydride transfer reactions in these materials.
This explanation however, is derived in the limit of low coverage, a scenario which may not be applicable in this case. In general, it is observed that due to the much higher heat of adsorption on H-MOR and H-BEA, the composite activation barriers are lower for b-scission and hydride transfer reactions,even though the intrinsic activation energies are higher.
The initial chain mechanism studies by Wojciechowski and coworkers (239248) as well as the quantitative modeling ideas presented by Froment and coworkers (251253) and Dumesic and coworkers (256260) have signifi- cantly enhanced our mechanistic understanding of complicated hydrocarbon systems on zeolites. Some of these methodologies have been adapted to study alkane aromatization over HZSM-5 based materials and we describe these studies below.
Watson et al. (269) have presented a modeling study for the cracking of n-heptane on HZSM-5 using linear free energy relationships (LFER) for various reaction families to determine kinetic parameters that would be inde- pendent of feedstock. Within this formalism, each sterically similar reaction family for example b-scission, hydride transfer, etc. is defined by a single Table 1: A comparison of kinetic parameters for isobutane conversion over various USY, H-MOR and H-b zeolites adapted from Sanchez-Castillo et al. [259]. Energy values are specified in kJ/mol.
Parameter
USY
H-MOR
H-b
DH3
290.0
2121.2
2122.2
Einit,H2
156.5
134.5
129.5
Einit,CH4
154.3
134.5
129.5
Eb, 38!38
102.2
120.1
119.2
Eb, 28!28
115.1
123.1
119.2
EHT C3
64.3
77.4
78.5
EHT C.5
62.2
72.1
71.5
Reprinted with permission from [259]. Copyright (2003) Elsevier.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 67 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 Arrhenius pre-exponential factor, and its LFER relates the change in acti- vation energy to a reactivity index (RI). The reactivity index could be associated with a molecular property of one of the reactants or products, or a property of the reaction itself, such as the heat of reaction. To account for the influence of the catalyst surface on the ionic surface species, a catalyst dependent DH par- ameter was defined, identical to the approach taken by Yaluris et al. (256, 257).
Three different temperatures, 723, 773, and 823 K were studied for a Si/Al ratio of 21.5 and three different silicon to aluminum ratio materials, 21.5,
35.25, and 63.5, were studied at a temperature of 773 K. The authors noted
an increase in catalytic activity when the Si/Al ratio decreased from 21. 5 to
35.25 and attribute this to enhanced acidity, however; this explanation contra-
dicts observations from several other experimental studies wherein no acidity change is observed with Si/Al ratio, as discussed in Section 2.1. There was good agreement between model predictions and experimental data is for n-heptane cracking, even though this model does not incorporate any features dependent on the primary, secondary or tertiary nature of the surface species or transition states.
Lukyanov and coworkers (115, 270277) have led the way in developing kinetic models for light paraffin and olefin aromatization on HZSM-5 materials. We focus our discussion on two publications (271, 274), the first one discussing ethylene and propylene aromatization and the second one dis- cussing propane aromatization, over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 catalysts that are particularly relevant.
Experimental data were generated at a hydrocarbon pressure of 1 bar, at a temperature of 803 K on a HZSM-5 material with Si/Al  27 for olefin aromati- zation (at 2-3 minutes on stream to avoid catalyst deactivation) and Si/Al  40 for propane aromatization. The gallium loading on these materials was 4 wt.%.
The reaction scheme proposed is comprised of 42 components: 9 olefins C2
C10
,10 paraffins C1C10, hydrogen, 7 dienes D4D10, 5 alkylcyclohexenes X6X10, 5 alkylcyclohexadienes Y6Y10, and 5 alkylbenzenes A6A10, where the subscript index denotes the number of carbon atoms in the component molecule. Individ- ual H and Ga sites were considered and individual site balances written for each site, however, it is not apparent whether each gallium site was considered to compensate for an H site as will be evident from our discussion in Section
4.3. The following reaction steps were considered to occur on Brnsted acid
sites: protolytic cracking and dehydrogenation of C2C4 paraffins, hydride transfer reactions of adsorbed olefins with propane, protonation of unsaturated compounds, olefin oligomerization and b-scission, diene formation via hydrogen transfer between two olefinic molecules, interaction of olefins with dienes to form higher molecular weight dienes, diene cyclization, and formation of aro- matics by successive hydrogen transfer reactions. The gallium sites were con- sidered to participate in alkane activation by dehydrogenation to form alkenes and hydrogenolysis to generate methane, adsorption/desorption of
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
68 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 unsaturated compounds, dehydrogenation of olefinic compounds to give dienes and dehydrogenation of napthenic compounds to aromatics. To reduce the number of reactions, isomers were not considered in this study.
For derivation of the rate equations, it was assumed that adsorption equili- brium was established and that adsorption constants were independent of mol- ecular weight. Based on our discussion of adsorption effects in Section 2.2., the latter assumption appears not to be valid in this case. Carbon number depen- dence was accounted for by considering various rate constants to be carbon number dependent. Based on adsorption equilibrium, a relatively simple site balance could be postulated and the kinetic model could be represented as a set of 42 equations represented as shown in Eq. (5) where Ri is the rate of trans- formation of the ith component; yis is the stoichiometric coefficient in the sth reaction step; rs is the rate of the sth reaction step.
Ri
X
276 n1 yisrs 1  i  42 5 A plug flow reactor model was used and the Gear method was used for numerical integration of the system of differential equations. Further reduction of the number of parameters was obtained by considering that (i) C4C10 olefins had similar reactivity except for the b-scission reaction, (ii) reac- tions of cyclic olefins and diolefins for hydride transfer were independent of carbon number and (iii) the rate of dehydrogenation steps were independent of molecular weight over the gallium sites.
Data at short contact times (23 minutes-on-stream) were used to identify the initial mechanisms of the light olefin aromatization reaction. Based on the observed product distribution as a function of contact time, the authors were able to discern an inhibitory effect of aromatics due to competitive adsorption as well as postulate C-C bond cleavage on gallium sites based on the high ethane production for propane aromatization reactions. The inhibitory effect of aromatics however, was somewhat artificially accounted for by arbitrarily increasing the adsorption constant for aromatics by a factor of 30 compared to olefins with the same carbon number. Based on setting the gallium par- ameters to be zero, the authors were also able to comment on the relative importance of gallium sites for various mechanisms. Gallium sites were calcu- lated to result in the formation of 90% of the dienes and 50% of the aromatic molecules for propane aromatization. Olefin reactivity in hydrogen transfer reactions was found to increase from ethene to butenes, with ethene being 11 times less reactive than butenes. For olefin aromatization, the authors find that diene formation via hydrogen-transfer steps on Brnsted acid sites was rate limiting, however, only relative rate constant values were presented in this study. The authors account for the decrease in Si/Al ratio for the propane aromatization study by multiplying each of the rate constants Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 69 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 obtained from the olefin aromatization study by the ratio of appropriate Si/Al ratios. For propane transformation on HZSM-5, the rate constants for protoly- tic activation of propane were calculated to be at least 1000 times slower than the rate constants of diene cyclization stepsthe rate limiting step for olefin aromatization. Based on the rate constant values presented for propane trans- formation on HZSM-5 the cracking to dehydrogenation ratio on HZSM-5 was noted to be 2.7. The introduction of gallium was observed to increase the dehy- drogenation rate constant by a factor of 7, while the protolytic cracking rate was not observed to be significantly altered. Both these observations are in close agreement with the work of Kwak et al. (117). Good quantitative agree- ment between model predictions and the experimental data are obtained based on 30 rate constants for olefin aromatization and an additional 14 rate constants for paraffin aromatization. A recent study from Nguyen et al. (278) has extended these studies to butane aromatization and has highlighted the much lower contribution of hydride transfer reactions in propane conversion due to the slower activation of propane resulting in a lower steady state concen- tration of olefins.
Although the above studies represent a valuable starting point for develop- ing complex models for light alkane aromatization, we note that a majority of the individual rate constants remain inaccessible from a quantitative point of view.
In addition, since the above studies were conducted at a single temperature,activation energy values cannot be calculated and individual pre-exponential factors cannot be checked for consistency based on transition state theory.
Since our philosophy for optimal catalyst formulation (279, 280) relies exten- sively on the validity of the kinetic model and due to the concerns described above, we have developed a detailed microkinetic model for propane aromatiza- tion on HZSM-5 catalysts (214) that is briefly described below.
Our model considers surface species to be neutral alkoxides, reactions of these alkoxides to occur via carbenium-ion-like transition states and alkane activation via carbonium-ion-like transition states. The carbon number of species was restricted to 9, as products larger than C9 are typically not observed in the product distribution, and isomers were not considered in this study in order to reduce the number of reactions. 311 reactions were grouped into 37 reaction families and the number of unknown parameters was reduced to 25 by using adsorption parameters for n-alkanes and relative rates for b-scission (187) and hydride transfer (198200) from the literature.
The rates of 10 products were monitored over the following experimental con- ditions: propane pressure of 1 atmosphere, temperatures in the range 793 823 K and contact time 012 g.-cat h./mol. Replicate data were used to estimate the pure sum of squared errors for statistical analyses. The model developed acknowledges the carbon number dependence of alkane adsorption energetics, considers the existence of methoxy surface species, includes alky- lation reactions as discussed in Section 3.1.4, as well as postulates the
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
70 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 elementary steps for cyclization and subsequent aromatization by hydride abstraction reactions. We obtain a quantitative description of these data at various conversions and obtain tight bounds on all the energetic parameters;model predictions at 803 and 813 K are shown in Figure 12. The bounds for the pre-exponential factors are, however, not tight and we attribute this to lack of parametric detail within each reaction family. Similar to the work of Dumesic and coworkers, we have also employed to degree of rate control as a sensitivity measure, and find alkane activation to be rate limiting.
Although the Lack-of-fit test (281) suggests scope for model improvement,the good agreement between experimental data and model predictions over a wide range of space times and hence conversions suggests that we have developed a microkinetic model that can describe the activity of Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5.
Corma et al. (282) have commented on the limitations of establishing the contribution of unimolecular and bimolecular reaction pathways for cracking reactions of long chain linear paraffins. They show that to determine the reaction mechanism based on experimental selectivity, the reactions con- sidered need to be independent. In the absence of an independent reaction system, the application of conservation laws results in a linearly dependent reaction system which generates several independent reaction schemes and makes it impossible for the contribution of unimolecular and bimolecular reac- tions to be discerned. We note the above argument might be circumvented, in case of light paraffin cracking, as products like methane and hydrogen do not undergo secondary reactions and hence, may enable a distinction between unimolecular and bimolecular reactions. We also comment that the mathemat- ical derivation presented does not include relative rate considerations available from modern day computational studies, constraints available from collision and transition state theory etc., which would help eliminate multiplicity in models.
In summary, recent quantitative modeling studies of propane aromatiza- tion in conjunction with computational studies detailing the various elemen- tary step kinetics of this system have greatly enhanced our understanding of this chemistry. Propane conversion over HZSM-5 results in the production of significant quantities of methane and ethane. Ideally, the transformation of light alkanes to aromatics would be accompanied by the generation of hydrogen. Hence, a metallic component is typically added to enhance the dehy- drogenation function of the catalyst, and we present a discussion of gallium- modified HZSM-5 materials in Section 4.
4.
GALLIUM MODIFIED HZSM-5 CATALYSTS
Among the large variety of metallic components added to HZSM-5 to enhance the dehydrogenation function of these catalysts, gallium and zinc have been Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 71 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 Figure 12: (a) Model predictions for propane aromatization over HZSM-5 at 803 K reproduced from Bhan et al. [214]. Reprinted with permission from [214]. Copyright (2005) Elsevier; (b) Model predictions for propane aromatization over HZSM-5 at 813 K reproduced from Bhan et al. [214]. Reprinted with permission from [214]. Copyright (2005) Elsevier.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
72 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 evaluated to give the best performance. Gallium-containing ZSM-5 formu- lations are industrially preferred mainly due to the high volatility of zinc,and our discussion below describes the synthesis and catalytic function of these Ga-based formulations.
The aromatization of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) alkanes to aromatics (mainly benzene, toluene, and xylenes, BTX) on Ga-modified ZSM-5 catalysts is commercialized in the Cyclar process jointly developed by UOP and BP. A large volume of literature starting from the 1980s has discussed the workings of this catalyst, and we present a tabulated compilation that describes the method of preparation, pretreatment conditions and the main conclusions of this literature in Table 2. Specific aspects of catalyst prep- aration, characterization, kinetic studies, and catalytic function of gallium- species on these materials are discussed below.
4.1.
Catalyst Preparation As presented in Table 2, most gallium modified formulations are prepared by impregnating, refluxing, or by mechanical mixing of Ga2O3 and HZSM-5,with subsequent thermal activation or reduction. Our discussion below attempts to show that Ga3 cations, in the as-prepared catalysts, irrespective of the preparation technique, are re-dispersed under the strongly reducing con- ditions and high temperatures prevalent during aromatization resulting in the active formulation of the catalyst.Wet impregnation of HZSM-5 with gallium salt solutions (Gallium nitrate in general) guarantees gallium deposition on the catalyst, nevertheless, most of the gallium is found to be located on the outside of the zeolite crystals as evi- denced by XPS and electron microscopy studies. In general polyvalent cations in HZSM-5 zeolites are found to be located preferentially at the outer surface of crystallites for Me3 cations and inside the zeolite structure for Me2 cations. This difference is ascribed to both enhanced steric and electro- static hindrances arising for hydrated trivalent cations. A study of zinc and gallium containing ZSM-5 zeolites by Yakerson et al. (283) to determine the state of added cations for ethane aromatization by employing pyridine-probe- molecule IR studies as well as analytical electron microscopy techniques con- firmed that Zn2 cations led to ion exchange and generated Lewis acid sites while Ga3 cations did not show any significant ion exchange or Lewis acidity upon deposition. Nowak et al. (284) also confirmed that exchanging tri- valent cations into ZSM-5 was difficult due to the hydrophobicity of the materials as well as the weak anionic field due to the separation of the Al sites required for ion exchange.Electron microscopy studies of catalysts prepared by incipient wetness impregnation and wet impregnation by Joly et al. (285) revealed that gallium was mainly located on the outer surface of the zeolite crystallites as thin Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts 73 Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 Table 2: Aromatization of hydrocarbons over Ga-containing catalysts: Summary of reaction conditions, catalyst formulation,and findings.
Reactants and conditions Ga-source Zeolite Preparation Pretreatment


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do isolated metal centers on oxide materials facilitate C-H bond activation in heterogeneous catalysis, what mechanisms (such as Mars van Krevelen and H-abstraction) are involved in these processes, and how are these principles applied in industrial selective oxidation of alkanes, using the conversion of butane to maleic anhydride as a specific example?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X20211200

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.90%

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 