<quotes>
[1] "Coke formation was characterized on a 0.5%Pt/Mg(Al)Ox dehydrogenation catalyst upon its exposure to C3H8 at 923 K in atmospheric-pressure flow experiments and low-pressure transient TAP experiments."
[2] "In agreement with the literature, these experiments suggest that non-selective Pt sites responsible for hydrogenolysis and decomposition of propane are partially blocked during the initial stages of coke formation, leading to the increase in selectivity toward propylene."
[3] "Time-resolved TAP experiments with a variable time delay between successive sequences of C3H8 pulses revealed that the most active non-selective Pt sites deactivated by C3H8 are spontaneously uncovered in vacuum within minutes."
[4] "DFT calculations support the assignment of these observations to a combination of (i) C3-to-C1 conversion followed by the migration of coke precursors from dehydrogenation sites toward the sites of graphene assembly and (ii) restructuring of Pt nanoparticles under the influence of carbon deposits, which leads to the formation of new Pt sites."
[5] "According to TEM, the morphology of mature carbonaceous deposits obtained in atmospheric-pressure flow experiments corresponds to extended graphene sheets which originate on small (1.52 nm) Pt nanoparticles and continuously shift onto the support."
[6] "On the support surface, thin graphene sheets undergo severe deformations and form disordered layers and entangled spaghetti-like bundles, possibly also containing carbon nanotubes."
[7] "Graphene formed on larger (5110 nm) Pt nanoparticles does not shift onto the support, but forms encapsulating graphitic layers."
[8] "Most of the coke deposits blocking the active sites on small nanoparticles can be removed and a significant portion of the initial catalytic activity can be restored by partial oxidation at relatively mild conditions (up to 700 K), without burning off all of the carbon deposits from larger particles and support."
[9] "Carbon deposits on Pt/Mg(Al)Ox catalysts are chemically homogeneous and consist primarily of graphene, yet their oxidation is a complicated process involving both chemical reactions and transport processes on the support surface."
[10] "The involvement of surface transport can explain the presence of two CO2 peaks that are often observed during TPO experiments with coked metal catalysts. In fact, both of those peaks may contain the coke located on the support material, but some of these coke deposits may be more accessible for the oxidizing species due to additional transport processes on the surface."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Coke formation was characterized on a 0.5%Pt/Mg(Al)Ox dehydrogenation catalyst under specific conditions.

2. Non-selective Pt sites responsible for hydrogenolysis and propane decomposition are partially blocked during coke formation, leading to an increase in propylene selectivity.

3. The most active non-selective Pt sites deactivated by C3H8 are spontaneously uncovered within minutes.

4. DFT calculations suggest a combination of C3-to-C1 conversion and restructuring of Pt nanoparticles under the influence of carbon deposits.

5. The morphology of mature carbonaceous deposits includes extended graphene sheets originating on small Pt nanoparticles and shifting onto the support.

6. Thin graphene sheets on the support surface undergo severe deformations and form disordered layers, possibly containing carbon nanotubes.

7. Larger Pt nanoparticles form encapsulating graphitic layers that do not shift onto the support.

8. Partial oxidation at mild conditions restores a significant portion of the initial catalytic activity without burning off all carbon deposits.

9. Carbon deposits on Pt/Mg(Al)Ox catalysts are chemically homogeneous and consist mainly of graphene, but their oxidation involves complex surface transport processes.

10. The two CO2 peaks during TPO experiments may contain coke located on the support material, but some deposits are more accessible due to additional transport processes on the surface.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1.X公司通过在特定条件下对0.5%Pt/Mg(Al)Ox脱氢催化剂上的焦炭形成进行了表征。

2.负责氢解和丙烷分解的非选择性Pt位点在焦炭形成期间部分被阻塞，导致丙烯选择性的增加。

3.在C3H8作用下活性最强的非选择性Pt位点在几分钟内自发恢复。

4. DFT计算表明，焦炭形成涉及C3到C1的转化以及Pt纳米颗粒在碳沉积物影响下的重构。

5.成熟的碳沉积物形态包括起源于小Pt纳米粒子的扩展石墨烯层，并转移到支撑上。

6.支撑表面上的薄石墨烯层经历了严重的变形，形成了无序层，可能包含碳纳米管。

7.较大的Pt纳米粒子形成包覆石墨层，不转移到支撑上。

8.在温和条件下进行的部分氧化可以恢复初始催化活性的一大部分，而无需燃烧掉所有碳沉积物从较大粒子和支撑表面。

9. Pt/Mg(Al)Ox催化剂上的碳沉积物化学上均一，主要由石墨烯组成，但其氧化涉及复杂的表面传输过程。

10.TPO实验中的两个CO2峰可能包含位于支撑材料上的焦炭，但某些沉积物由于表面上的额外传输过程更加可访问。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
