I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Dehydrogenation of light alkanes to mono-olefins In the past several decades, light alkane dehydrogenation to mono-olefins, especially propane dehydrogenation to propylene has gained widespread attention and much development in the field of research and commercial application. Under suitable conditions, the supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts widely used in industry exhibit satisfactory dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and the potential environmental problems of CrOx have driven researchers to improve the coking and sintering resistance of Pt catalysts, and to find new non-noble metal and environment-friendly catalysts. As for the development of the reactor, it should be noted that low operation pressure is beneficial for improving the single-pass conversion, decreasing the amount of unconverted alkane recycled back to the reactor, and reducing the energy consumption of the whole process. Therefore, the research direction of reactor improvement is towards reducing the pressure drop. This review is aimed at introducing the characteristics of the dehydrogenation reaction, the progress made in the development of catalysts and reactors, and a new understanding of reaction mechanism as well as its guiding role in the development of catalyst and reactor.
Chunyi Li Prof. Chunyi Li received his PhD degree in Chemical Engineering and Technology from China University of Petroleum. His current scientific interests are focused on the development of the catalysts, the matching technologies for heavy oil processing and light alkane dehydrogenation, etc. He has published more than 100 scientific articles and 50 patents, with 20 more industrialized projects. He was awarded the National Science and Technology Progress Award (China) in 2010 and the Shandong Provincial Technology Invention Award in 2015.
Guowei Wang Dr Guowei Wang obtained her PhD degree from China University of Petroleum under the supervision of Prof. Honghong Shan. Her current research focuses on the design and synthesis of the catalysts applied in catalytic reactions such as dehydrogenation of light alkanes. She has published more than 40 articles in peer-refereed journals and has been listed as a co-inventor on 15 patents and applications.
1. Introduction
Dehydrogenation includes a vast class of reactions, concerning the partial hydrogen abstracted from organic compounds, such as alkanes, cycloalkanes, alcohols and amines, to form various compounds including olefins, cycloalkenes, aldehydes, ketones and imines.14 In recent years, the ever-increasing demand for propylene has driven the rapid application and development of propane dehydrogenation technologies. In particular, in China, it is predicted that the processing capacity of propane dehydrogenation will increase to 30 million t per annum by 2030 from about 7 million t per annum at present. Almost at the same time, inspired by the demand for MTBE synthesized by methanol and isobutylene, isobutane dehydrogenation to isobutylene has also been applied widely. The main purpose of dehydrogenation of n-butane is to produce 1,3-butadiene directly or in combination with the oxidative dehydrogenation of 1-butylene. This route to 1,3-butadiene has been replaced by the steam cracking of naphtha due to economic factors. The catalytic dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene cannot be commercialized because the efficiency of the steam cracker is much higher due to the thermodynamics that allows for higher conversion levels at higher temperatures. Thus, until now the conversion of ethane to ethylene still depends on steam cracking at about 850 C. In fact, there are many things in common for the dehydrogenation of these light alkanes. Therefore, in this paper we mainly discuss the dehydrogenation of light alkanes, especially propane, from the application perspective.
The dehydrogenation of alkane to olefin and H2 is endothermic, and the conversion for a single pass is limited by the thermodynamic equilibrium. If the H2 produced can be oxidized to H2O during dehydrogenation, not only will the endothermic process be transformed to an exothermic one, but also the equilibrium limitation will be broken. In this regard, oxidative dehydrogenation has attracted more and more attention. A large number of catalysts, including MoVTeNb,5 Pd,6 VOx,7,8 carbon materials,9,10 and metalorganic framework-supported metals,11 have been reported. However, because O2 or other oxidants dominate in the competitive adsorption with alkanes, the conversion of light alkanes cannot be improved under similar reaction conditions, and at the same time, the selectivity to olefin is far lower than that of catalytic dehydrogenation.
The dehydrogenation of alkanes can be catalyzed by metal complex catalysts and supported metal or metal oxide catalysts. Many metal complexes, such as Ir, Rh, Ru and Ti, are active for the dehydrogenation of linear and cyclic alkanes in the presence or absence of a H2 acceptor.1216 There are also several reports on the dehydrogenation of ethane and propane over Ti complexes at room temperature; however, ethylene and propylene can only be liberated from the complexes by the use of N2O, organic azides or ketones.17,18 The research in this aspect is still far from application. Therefore, the dehydrogenation of light alkanes should still depend on the supported metal or metal oxide catalysts.
In the commercial processes OleflexTM, CatofinTM, STARTM, LindeTM, and FBD-4, either supported PtSn or CrOx catalysts have been applied. Although supported Pt catalysts have been applied commercially for several decades, it is still a research hotspot. Moreover, there are many reports on the improvement of traditional supported CrOx catalysts. It is worth noting that some novel and interesting dehydrogenation catalysts have also been reported recently. In the paper, in addition to the research progress of the catalysts, the new understanding of the reaction mechanism and the technical advances of the dehydrogenation reactors are also introduced.
2. Characteristics and conditions of light alkane dehydrogenation
Theoretically, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an atom-economic reaction. That is, one mole of propane generates one mole propylene and one mole H2 through dehydrogenation, and both of the products are high value-added. Although it is impossible to achieve the ideal state in practice, the actual results can approach this state very closely via the application of both an appropriate catalyst and the optimized reaction conditions.19 There are two undesirable aspects of the dehydrogenation reaction: one is high energy consumption, i.e., the heat needed for the complete conversion of one mole of propane to propylene is approximately 120 kJ mol1; the other is that propane conversion for a single pass is not high due to the limitation of the thermodynamic equilibrium, and a large amount of unconverted propane must be recycled back to the reactor after separation, leading to large equipment investment and high energy consumption. It should be noted that in a PDH process the separation section is even more energy-intensive than the dehydrogenation reaction. Therefore, PDH is a high energy-consuming process.
Obviously, increasing the conversion of propane for a single pass is an effective way to reduce the equipment investment and operation cost; however, it is not simple. To increase the conversion of propane, from the view of thermodynamic equilibrium, there are three measures we can take: increasing the reaction temperature, reducing the partial pressure of hydrocarbons and lowering the partial pressure of H2.
Between 500 C and 700 C, the equilibrium conversion of light alkanes increases nearly linearly with temperature (Fig. 1a); the accepted upper limit of temperature for PDH, however, may be about 630 C.1 Exceeding the limit will cause severe side reactions including thermal cracking and coking. Hence, operating at around 600 C seems to be more feasible. For isobutane dehydrogenation, the temperature can be a little lower.
Fig. 1 (a) Equilibrium conversion of propane to propene as a function of temperature under different pressures, and (b) equilibrium conversion of propane dehydrogenation as a function of pressure at 600 C.
As shown in Fig. 1b, the equilibrium conversion drops exponentially with pressure. Reducing the partial pressure of hydrocarbons is very effective for increasing the conversion. We can reduce the overall operation pressure or introduce dilute gas to reduce the partial pressure of hydrocarbons. Obviously, operating below atmospheric pressure is favorable for dehydrogenation, but the potential risk lies in air leakage into the unit. Thus, the most suitable reaction pressure may be equal to the sum of the pressure-drop from the outlet of the reactor to the inlet of the oil vapor compressor and the inlet pressure of the compressor, which is controlled to be slightly above atmospheric pressure. Also, we may introduce steam or other inert gases to dilute the hydrocarbons. Steam is preferred if possible, because it can be removed by condensation before entering the compressor. However, the introduction of a large amount of steam will cause the decrease of the conversion20 due to competitive adsorption unless the reaction temperature is greatly increased. While using other inert gases is economically unreasonable, if nitrogen or another inert gas is introduced, it will go through all the processes including heating, compression and separation, and every procedure will increase the energy consumption.
Lowering the partial pressure of H2 will shift the equilibrium towards dehydrogenation. Actually there is no available commercial technology although various procedures, such as film separation,21 oxidative dehydrogenation,2224 and a combination of film separation and oxidative dehydrogenation25 were proposed. In practice, the partial pressure of H2 is often elevated intentionally to slow down the coking rate and prolong the time between regenerations.
Thus, the actual reaction temperature and pressure for dehydrogenation plants should be determined by the variation trend of the equilibrium conversion with temperature and pressure as well as the severity of the unselective thermal reactions. Suitable reaction conditions are important not only for a commercial unit, but also for the exploration of new catalysts, which means that it is not worth carrying out an in-depth study on a catalyst possessing good performance only under the reaction conditions detached from engineering practice. In the initial stage of the development of a new catalyst, the evaluating conditions should be screened carefully to ensure that the research work is meaningful.
3. Catalysts
An overview of the representative dehydrogenation catalysts, including reaction conditions, key results, and references, is given in Table 1.
Table 1 Summary of representative catalysts for light alkane dehydrogenation Catalyst composition Reaction conditions Results Ref.
Metal catalysts Pt/Al2O3 T = 600 C, WHSV propane = 10 h1, C3H8/H2/N2 = 13/13/24 mL min1, 0.15 g of catalyst Conv. = 50.521.0% (10 h), selec. = 78.5% (10 h) 27 Pt/TiO2Al2O3 Conv. = 47.325.9% (10 h), selec. = 89.5% (10 h) GaPt/SiO2 T = 550 C, WHSV = 98 h1, C3H8/Ar = 10/40 mL min1 Conv. = 30.917.1% (20 h), selec. > 99% (20 h) 28 PtSn/CeO2 T = 680 C, liquid water 0.005 mL min1, C3H8/He = 2/10 mL min1, 0.1 g of catalyst Conv. = 4540% (2 h), selec. = 78%85% (2 h) 29 Pt/Mg(Sn)(Al)O T = 550 C, WHSV propane =14 h1, C3H8/H2/Ar = 1/0.5/2, 0.4 g of catalyst Conv. = 4540% (2 h), selec. = 7885% (2 h) 30 Pd/Al2O3 T = 550 C, C3H8/Ar = 0.69/29.31 mL min1, 0.066 g of catalyst Conv. = 775% (5 h), selec. = 077% (5 h) 31 PdZn/Al2O3 T = 550 C, C3H8/Ar = 0.46/19.54 mL min1, 0.503 g of catalyst Conv. = 179% (2 h), selec. = 6464% (2 h) Ni3Ga/Al2O3 T = 600 C, C3H8/Ar = 2/18 mL min1, 0.1 g of catalyst Conv. = 139% (82 h), selec. = 9481% (82 h) 32 NiS/SiO2 T = 560 C, i-C4H10/N2 = 2/12 mL min1, 4.0 g of catalyst Conv. = 67.0 wt%, selec. = 87.6 wt% 33 Sn-HMS T = 560 C, C3H8/N2 = 2/12 mL min1, 1.5 g of catalyst Conv. = 39.838.2% (155 h), selec. = 90.489.6% (155 h) 34 Metal oxide catalysts Cr/MCM-41 T = 630 C, C3H8/N2 = 4/25 mL min1, 0.4 g of catalyst Conv. = 53%40% (1 h), selec. = 87%80% (1 h) 35 CrZrOx/SiO2 T = 550 C, WHSV propane = 8.08 h1, C3H8/N2 = 4.8/7.2 mL min1 Conv. = 20%, selec. = 92% 36 VOX/SiO2 T = 580 C, C3H8/Ar = 1.5/15 mL min1, 0.3 g of catalyst Conv. = 5640% (6 h), selec. = 92% (6 h) 37 VOX/SiO2 Conv. = 6430% (21 h), selec. = 90% (21 h) 38 CuZrO T = 600 C, WHSV propane = 4.73 h1, C3H8/Ar = 8/52 mL min1, 0.2 g of catalyst Conv. = 26%, selec. = 98.5% 39 Ga@Al2O3 T = 550 C, C3H8/Ar = 1/4 mL min1, 0.08 g of catalyst Conv. = 248% (25 h), selec. = 8090% (25 h) 40 Ga-MFI T = 600 C, W/F = 0.3 g s mL1, C3H8/N2 = 1/19 mL min1 Conv. = 2718% (12 h), selec. = 6580% (12 h) 41 Other catalyst systems Single-site Co2+/SiO2 T = 550 C, C3H8/Ar = 1.65/53.35 mL min1, 1 g of catalyst Conv. = 410% (20 h), selec. = 9195% (20 h) 42 GaRh-SCALMS T = 550 C, C3H8/He = 8.9/89 mL min1, 1.2 g of catalyst Conv. = 297.5% (15 h), selec. = 87  7% (15 h) 43
3.1 Metal catalysts
Pt, as the active component of dehydrogenation catalyst for alkanes to olefins, is well-known for its excellent performance due to its ability to efficiently break CH bonds.26 Most of the papers on light alkane dehydrogenation are focused on supported Pt catalysts which have been widely used in industry in the last several decades. In this part, we will firstly introduce the progress made in Pt catalysts in detail, and then discuss the recent development in supported Pd, Ni and Sn catalysts.
3.1.1 Supported Pt catalysts 3.1.1.1 Pt dispersion, catalyst composition and performance The performances of the supported Pt catalysts are affected by many factors, such as the amount and dispersion degree (particle size) of Pt, carriers, additives, and preparation methods. Generally, the loading amount of Pt is larger than 0.1 wt% and less than 1 wt%.44 If the loading amount is excessively low, the activity will not reach that needed in a commercial process. Since Pt is very expensive, we hope to use the smallest amount of Pt to achieve the optimal activity. Thus, the loaded Pt should be exposed on the surface of the carrier as much as possible. Aguilar-Rios et al.45 demonstrated that the activity increases linearly with the dispersion of Pt. Both CH bond and CC bond activation of propane are structure-sensitive over a Pt/Mg(Al)O catalyst.46 Baxter et al.47 also pointed out that the activity of Pt clusters deposited on Al2O3 can be related to the cluster structure and the distribution of cluster morphologies, and coking and deactivation are also size-dependent. Experimental results have shown that the dehydrogenation of light alkanes over Pt catalysts is a structure-sensitive reaction, and the reactivity and selectivity exhibit a nonmonotonic trend with Pt particle size. Pt7 clusters are more active than Pt4 and Pt8 on either per Pt cluster or per Pt atom basis.48 When pure Pt on the catalyst surface exists as clusters made up of several Pt atoms prepared by the condensation of laser-vaporized metal, the catalyst mainly leads to deep dehydrogenation.49 Therefore, the dispersion or the particle size of Pt is probably the most decisive factor of the catalyst activity.50
To expose the loaded Pt on the surface of the carriers, ion exchange and impregnation are two simple and practical methods. The dispersion of Pt mainly depends on the precursors of Pt, the preparation conditions, the properties of the carriers, and the interaction between Pt and the carriers, as well as the additives.
Generally, the materials possessing strong interaction with Pt particles and high thermal stability are chosen as the carriers of the catalysts. Although there are many reports on the carriers, including SiO2,26,28,51,52 TiO2,27 CeO2,29 spinels,53 zeolites,19 SBA-15,54 and various carbon materials,55 Al2O3 is still the best choice, considering its advantages in the dispersion of Pt, thermal stability, cost, shaping and mechanical-strength of the catalyst. Once the carrier is determined, the precursors of Pt, compositions and preparation conditions need to be optimized.
Even so, the performance of supported monometallic Pt catalysts are still not satisfactory.44 The catalyst is not selective and deactivates quickly due to coke deposition, because the strong interaction between Pt and alkenes leads to severe side reactions.56 On monometallic Pt particles, the desorption energy of C3H6 is higher than the energy barrier for CH bond breaking, causing the dehydrogenation of C3H6.54 Furthermore, the catalyst cannot be fully regenerated after deactivation and eventually loses its activity and selectivity after consecutive reactionregeneration cycles.57 The origin of the permanent deactivation is the sintering of Pt particles. The three main tasks of ameliorating the supported Pt catalysts are to improve the selectivity of desired olefins, prolong the time between regenerations and enhance sintering resistance.
3.1.1.2 Side reactions and selectivity In the process of propane dehydrogenation, the side reactions mainly include cracking and coking, while for butane dehydrogenation, both skeletal isomerization and double-bond isomerization may also be undesired. These side reactions affect not only the selectivity to the desired olefins, but also the time between regenerations. Both the reaction conditions and the catalysts have a close relationship with the side reactions.
The dehydrogenation of light alkanes often proceeds in the range of 560630 C. If the reactors are operated adiabatically, the heat needed by the reaction is mainly supplied by the preheated feed, and then the temperature of the feed before entering the reactors must be higher than the highest temperature of the catalyst beds. Generally, the thermal decomposition of light alkanes is unavoidable when the temperature is higher than 550 C and gets severe with temperature,44 though shortening the residence time of alkanes in the tube of preheating furnace can suppress the reactions to an acceptable extent. The main side products of the thermal decomposition of propane include H2, CH4, C2H4, C2H6 and coke.
The acidity of the carriers can catalyze both the cracking of light alkanes and coking, especially the polycondensation of unsaturated hydrocarbons to form coke. In fact, Al2O3 itself, the common catalyst carrier for dehydrogenation, possesses a relatively high dehydrogenation activity, but its acidity leads to low selectivity of olefins.58 Therefore, if acid carriers are used, alkali elements should be added into the catalyst to neutralize the acid sites. For example, in the commercial PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst a small amount of K is often added to neutralize the acidity of Al2O3 to improve the selectivity.44,59 Both introducing TiO2 into Al2O327 and introducing ZnO into Mg(Al)O60 or Al2O361 to modify the carriers of Pt-based catalysts can improve olefin selectivity without obvious decrease of the reactivity.
Moreover, the side reactions can also be catalyzed by Pt particles. The monometallic Pt can not only promote the formation of coke or coke precursors via deep dehydrogenation of hydrocarbons, but also expedite the cleavage of CC bonds. Cesar et al.62 showed that the cleavage of CC bonds catalyzed by Pt particles is a structure-sensitive reaction and the decrease in the Pt particle size inhibits the reaction significantly. Xiong et al.29 found that the atomically dispersed monometallic Pt catalyst only catalyzes the CC cleavage of hydrocarbons. Although they held different opinions on the effect of Pt particle size on the cleavage of CC bonds, they both concluded that adding the second metal to form alloys with Pt improves the selectivity greatly.
3.1.1.3 Sintering of Pt The increase of metal particle size and the decrease of carrier surface at high temperature are all called sintering. Sintering reduces the surface area of the active phase, and consequently decreases the catalytic activity. For the supported Pt catalysts, normally the particle size of Pt dispersed on the carriers is several nanometers. The permanent deactivation of the catalyst is mainly caused by the sintering of Pt nano-particles. If no measures are taken to redisperse Pt particles, the effect of the reduction of the carrier surface on the activity will be negligible.
Sintering is a thermally activated process and high temperature is the driving force. These exposed Pt nano-particles are not stable under the reaction conditions and part of the particles migrate and coalesce to form larger Pt particles. It seems that it is impossible to prevent the sintering of Pt nano-particles; some measures, however, can be taken to retard the process.
The addition of a second metal has been found to be highly effective for the sintering resistance of Pt particles. The introduced metal forms alloys with Pt around Pt particles,63 and the alloys anchor them on the surface of the carriers, making them not easy to migrate and coalesce. There are several metals that can be used as an additive to enhance sintering resistance, as will be introduced in detail later.
The application of the carriers possessing a strong interaction with Pt is another way to retard the sintering. Al2O3 is the most common carrier of Pt catalyst, in which the coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ can anchor Pt to make it not easy to migrate.64 Mironenko et al. proposed that the OH groups of Al2O3 serve as the anchoring sites for a Pt precursor via electrostatic interaction during preparation.65 Nanocarbon was also reported as the carrier of Pt to improve the sintering resistance, and the strong metalcarrier interaction leads to the electron transfer from nanocarbon to the Pt particles, significantly preventing the sintering of Pt.55 MgAl2O4 spinel is also a good choice as the carrier. Generally, Pt is not directly loaded on MgAl2O4 spinel prepared beforehand, but firstly loaded into the spaces between the layers of MgAlOx hydrotalcite, and then Pt particles are enclosed in the interspace of MgAl2O4 spinel formed through the collapse of the layered structure of the hydrotalcite after calcination at high temperature. In this way, Pt particles isolated are not easy to migrate into large ones.66 Moliner et al.67 reported effective methods to encapsulate Pt in highly siliceous chabazite, and the catalyst showed enhanced stability towards Pt sintering even at 650750 C in the atmospheres of H2, O2 and H2O. Moreover, the Al2O3 overcoat has also proved to be efficient in preventing the sintering of Pt nanoparticles through atomic layer deposition.68 The introduction of a second metal or the choice of an appropriate carrier only slows down the sintering rate of Pt. To recover the activity completely, the sintered Pt particles must be redispersed. Generally, simple coke burning-off by air cannot realize redispersion, but aggravates the sintering of Pt particles. For the commercial dehydrogenation units using supported Pt catalyst, the spent catalyst is regenerated by air in the presence of a halide (generally, chlorine), the role of which is to redisperse sintered Pt particles.69,70 This step is called oxychlorination regeneration. Although there are many negative effects for the introduction of chlorine into the units, it has to be adopted since there is no other good approach that can be chosen.
In fact, as long as the interaction between Pt and the carrier is strong enough, the sintering of Pt can be effectively slowed down. Compared with a dehydrogenation catalyst, solving the problem of Pt sintering is more urgent for an automotive exhaust catalyst, because the latter is required to work for a long time at higher temperature and cannot be redispersed in situ. Tanabe et al. revealed that no Pt sintering was observed for Pt/MgO as an automotive exhaust catalyst after calcination in air at 900 C, for the formation of a Mg2PtO4-like compound prevents the migration of Pt.71 Nagai et al. found that CeO2 had a similar effect of MgO in preventing the sintering of Pt due to the formation of the PtOCe bond in the Pt/CeO2 catalyst.72 Recently, Pt supported on CeO2 has attracted more attention because of the ability of CeO2 to trap Pt in an atomically dispersed state.73 The atomically dispersed Pt is most likely to be present in the form of Pt2+ bonded to the ubiquitous step edges of the CeO2 surface.74 The monometallic Pt/CeO2 catalyst is very stable even at 800 C, but only catalyzes the CC bond cleavage of hydrocarbons. The addition of Sn to form small PtSn clusters results in a highly selective catalyst in propane dehydrogenation. What is noticeable is that the deactivated PtSn/CeO2 catalyst can be regenerated fully by burning coke without oxychlorination to redisperse Pt.29 Obviously, to regenerate the Pt catalyst in the absence of a halide is great progress.
3.1.1.4 Time between regenerations The time between regenerations is an important parameter for the design and operation of fixed- or moving-bed reactors. The time between regenerations over the supported Pt catalyst for light-alkane dehydrogenation is determined by the rate of coking, because the sintering of Pt during the reaction is a relatively slow process. Coking deactivation is classified into two distinct stages, quick deactivation and steady state.75 The loss of activity cannot be simply correlated with the amount and nature of coke deposited.57 If the coke is formed on the carriers, the activity of the catalyst will not be affected, while the pressure drop of the catalyst bed will increase consequently. It should be noticed that both the conversion and the selectivity will decrease with the increase of the pressure drop. The conversion will decrease since dehydrogenation is a reversible reaction with an increase in the mole number. As for the selectivity to olefins, since the side reactions such as cracking and coking are irreversible reactions, the proportion of the side reactions will increase when dehydrogenation is inhibited, resulting in the reduced olefin selectivity. Only when the Pt particles are covered by coke will the catalyst deactivate. Therefore, no matter where the coke is and how it forms, it is an adverse factor for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Slowing down the coking rate and prolonging the time between regenerations are pivotal for improving the technologies of light alkane dehydrogenation.
Just like the sintering of Pt, coking is unavoidable, but some measures can be taken to slow down the coking rate, including the optimization of reaction conditions and the catalyst. For the reaction conditions, the rate of coking is affected by H2,76 H2O, the partial pressure of hydrocarbons, as well as the space time and linear velocity of oil vapor. For a catalyst, the most important factor is its composition.Increasing the partial pressure of H2 is the most common measure to inhibit coke formation. In Honeywell UOP's OleflexTM process, this measure is taken to control the coking rate and adjust the time between regenerations. Reducing coke formation by increasing the partial pressure of H276,77 is at the cost of the conversion of light alkanes, since it is thermodynamically unfavorable for dehydrogenation. The circulation of H2 and the decrease of the conversion will lead to the increase of equipment investment and operation cost.Introducing a small amount of H2O into the reactor can also reduce coke significantly, but it decreases the conversion due to the competitive adsorption with the feed. Increasing the reaction temperature will weaken the effect of H2O on the conversion to some extent. For example, when adding a little H2O into the feed, the conversion of propane over the PtSn/CeO2 catalyst reaches about 40% at 680 C and coke formation is almost suppressed completely from 2.8 to 0.5 wt%.29 As for the partial pressure of hydrocarbons, it should be kept as low as possible without affecting the stable and safe operation of the unit, because the conversion will drop and the coke yield will increase with the pressure. Generally, adjusting the partial pressure of hydrocarbons to reduce coke formation is not considered in practice.Space time affects both the conversion and the selectivity.78 The conversion increases with it and the selectivity is just the opposite. The increased formation of side products include coke and the smaller molecules produced by cracking. Although shortening the space time can reduce or even almost avoid coke formation, what is more important is the balance between the conversion and the selectivity.The effect of the linear velocity on coking is similar to that of the space time. In the case of a constant space time, the increase of the linear velocity is unfavorable for the adsorption of the formed olefins on the catalyst surface and reduces the backmixing degree of oil vapor, and thus the secondary reactions of olefins, including the polycondensation to coke, can be inhibited even though the linear velocity cannot be elevated greatly due to the consequently increased pressure drop of the catalyst bed, which is proportional to the square of velocity. Therefore, this measure is not applicable to lengthen the time between regenerations.The most important factor affecting the time between regenerations is the composition of the catalyst. Both the metals and the carriers may catalyze the formation of coke, as stated in the section of side reactions and selectivity. The addition of the second metal to form alloys with Pt and using the carrier without acidity can reduce the coke formed by deep dehydrogenation and polycondensation of hydrocarbons, respectively. Jiang et al. suggested that adding about 10 wt% TiO2 into Al2O3 carrier can suppress coke formation, because the electron donation from partially reduced TiOx species to Pt leads to electron-rich Pt particles, which inhibit the adsorption of propylene and the formation of the coke precursor.27 Improving the coking resistance of the catalyst is the most effective way to prolong the time between regenerations. Moreover, the optimization of reaction conditions can also help to lengthen the time between regenerations, such as the introduction of hydrogen or steam.
3.1.1.5 Additives Based on the above discussions, it can be seen that additives play key roles in improving the selectivity to olefins, catalyst coking and sintering resistance. The additives are classified into two categories: one is alkali or alkaline earth metal oxides to neutralize the acidity of the carriers to lessen the side reactions catalyzed by acid sites44 and the other is metal or nonmetal elements to modify the properties of Pt. The latter category will be discussed here.
So far, there are many metals, such as Sn,57,60,79 Fe,54 Ir,56 Co,54,62 Ni,54 Zn,26,52 Ga,28,53,80 In,81,82 and Cu,26 reported as the additives. Among these metals, Sn is the most intensively studied and has been applied commercially for many years. The performance of the PtSn catalyst varies with the Pt/Sn ratios. For propane dehydrogenation over PtSn catalyst, Pt0.5Sn0.75/Al2O3 (0.5 wt% Pt and 0.75 wt% Sn) with the highest Pt dispersion possessed the highest yield and selectivity to propylene.79 The function of Sn in the supported PtSn catalyst reflected via geometrical and/or electronic effects, can be summarized in the following four aspects.Facilitating the dispersion of Pt In supported Pt catalysts, Sn separates large Pt particles into nanoparticles, and the formed bimetallic alloy phases are generally Pt3Sn and PtSn, resulting in small Pt particles or isolated Pt atoms.62 In Yang's opinion, Pt3Sn alloy is also active for propane dehydrogenation.83 Thus, adding Sn to increase the dispersion of Pt can improve the activity of the catalyst. Furthermore, a portion of Sn is atomically dispersed on the surface of the carrier, which will be the nucleation site for the redispersion of the sintered Pt during the regeneration process.57 Since the atomically dispersed Sn plays an important role in improving the catalyst sintering resistance, Xu et al. proposed a new strategy to prepare the highly stable PtSn catalyst supported on zeolite. Firstly Sn is incorporated into the vacancies produced by removing Al from the framework of the zeolite, and then Pt is grafted onto the isolated Sn sites. In this way, the prepared PtSn/zeolite catalyst exhibits excellent dehydrogenation performance.19 Improving olefin selectivity Cracking over Pt particles caused by the multipoint adsorption of hydrocarbons on multiple Pt atoms is a structure-sensitive reaction, so the addition of Sn to reduce Pt particle size inhibits the cleavage of CC bonds.62 This is attributed to a geometrical effect. It is generally believed that the increased olefin selectivity after Sn addition is due to the electron donation from Sn to Pt, which weakens the interaction between Pt and olefins. Cybulskis et al.26 studied the similar effect of Zn addition, and pointed out that the promoting mechanism lies in the changes in the energy of Pt 5d electrons, rather than the electron occupancy due to electron donation as proposed previously. This effectively reduces the binding energies of Pt and olefins, and thus increases the selectivity (see Fig. 2). For the electronic effect, density functional theory calculations have supplied some evidence. Sn addition broadens the d-band of Pt and leads to a downshift in the d-band center of the PtSn alloy, decreasing the bonding strength of alkyl and olefins with the alloyed surfaces.83 Anyway, the introduction of Sn reduces the energy barriers of olefin desorption and simultaneously increases the activation energy for deep dehydrogenation. Accordingly, the selectivity to olefins is improved markedly.Fig. 2 The energy level diagram for Pt 5d valence bands in Pt/SiO2 and PtZn/SiO2. Lowered energy of the filled states of the Pt surface weakens the bond between the 5d orbitals and adsorbates.26 Reproduced from ref. 26 with permission from the American Chemical Society, copyright 2017.Reducing coke formation and slowing down coking deactivation The mechanism of reducing coke by Sn addition is consistent with that of improving the selectivity of olefins, that is to weaken the interaction between Pt and olefins to inhibit the formation of the coke precursor.26 Even if the coke precusor is formed, Sn may help to migrate it to the carrier.57 Thus, the deactivation caused by the coverage of Pt particles with coke slows down. Increasing sintering resistance The formation of alloys around Pt particles increases the migration resistance of Pt, and thus improves its sinter resistance. Besides, Mg(Al)O hydrotalcite is also used to confine Pt in its lattice to improve the stability of the catalyst, while Zhu et al.60 employed a different approach to prepare the catalyst with good durability. Mg(Sn)(Al)O hydrotalcite, a Sn containing layered double hydroxide was sythesized on Al2O3, and Sn bonded with Mg or Al (SnIV/IIOM) was dispersed atomically. The loaded Pt dispersed homogeneously in small clusters and interacted strongly with the Sn sites confined in the lattice. It was reported that the performance of Pt/Mg(Sn)(Al)O@Al2O3 catalyst was stable during 240 h TOS, but no reactivity data after regeneration were given.The addition of Ga, In, Zn, Cu, Ir, Co to Pt catalysts exhibits similar effects as Sn. PtGa/SiO2 containing isolated gallium sites display a high performance in propane dehydrogenation. It is still controversial as to whether PtGa alloy or Ga2O3 contributes largely to the improved activity.28 Not only that, but Sattler et al.84 showed that in the highly active, selective and stable PtGaK/Al2O3 (0.1 wt% Pt, 3 wt% Ga, 0.25 wt% K) catalyst for the dehydrogenation of propane, the coordinately unsaturated Ga3+ is responsible for activating the CH bond, and Pt only acts as a promoter. Furthermore, just like the PtSn/CeO2 catalyst,29 the reactivity can be fully recovered via simple coke burning in air, although the sintering of Pt still occurs. Located at the same main group with Ga, In was also reported to be the promoter of supported Pt catalysts. The PtIn/Mg(Al)O catalyst prepared at pH 8 using the co-precipitation method exhibits the best catalytic performance and the strongest interaction between the metal phase and the carrier.81 Liu et al.82 suggested that In addition into the PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst to form PtSn and PtIn alloys improves the catalytic performance further. PtZn alloy particles supported on mesoporous silica via atomic layer deposition show better selectivity towards 1,3-butadiene for the deep dehydrogenation of n-butane than the PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst.52 Cybulskis et al.26 concluded that the increased selectivity over PtZn and PtCu alloys is caused by the effective reduction of the binding energies of adsorbates. Veldurthi et al.85 reported that the surface of Pt can be partially covered by Cu. Ir can also be added into the supported Pt catalyst to improve the coking resistance; however, the Pt3Ir alloy is less active compared to the Pt3Sn alloy.56 Bimetallic PtCo catalyst is highly selective to olefins due to the separation of large Pt ensembles into bimetallic nanoparticles by less active Co acting as the structural promoter.62 Cai et al.54 prepared Pt-skin catalysts with Fe, Co or Ni atoms in subsurface regions using the co-impregnation method combined with post-acid leaching of the pre-reduced PtFe, PtCo or PtNi catalysts. These Pt-skin catalysts present higher reactivity and selectivity in propane dehydrogenation than the monometallic Pt catalyst, and propylene selectivity increases in the order Pt < PtNi < PtCo < PtFe.Besides these metals, B and Si, two nonmetal elements, can play similar roles, too. Dehydrogenation of n-butane over the PtB/SiO2 catalyst showed improved catalytic activity and stability compared with Pt/SiO2. This was attributed to the facilitated migration of alkyl groups from Pt catalytic sites to tetrahedrally coordinated B sites.51 Dadras et al.86 called B a magic bullet against sintering and coking, and they summarized the positive roles of B as follows. The non-stoichiometric PtB cluster is anchored to the carrier via a covalent BO bond, which is much stronger than the interaction between Pt clusters and the carrier surface. Additionally, the dissociation energy of a Pt atom from a PtB cluster is significantly larger than that from the pure Pt cluster, increasing the sintering resistance. Finally, the affinity of PtB cluster to C also drops dramatically, leading to the reduced coke formation and increased selectivity to olefins. Ha et al.48 also concluded that boration reduces the binding energy of olefins as well as the tendency towards coke precursors. It is predicted by a computational screening of main-group elements as potential additives for the Pt catalyst that Si, just as B, can modify the selectivity of the Pt catalyst by changing both electronic and geometric properties.87
3.1.2 Supported Pd catalysts Pd/Al2O3 catalyst is much less active than Pt/Al2O3 catalyst with the same metal loadings for n-butane dehydrogenation under the same conditions. The introduction of Cu into the Pd catalyst can increase the dispersion of Pd and improve both the activity and the selectivity even though the activity of PdCu/Al2O3 is just over half the activity of Pt/Al2O3.85 Cao et al. investigated propane dehydrogenation over the single-Pd-doped Cu55 cluster88 and Pd/Cu(111) surface89 based on first-principles calculations. The predicted activity of the former is slightly higher than that of the latter. The single Pd doping at the edge site of the Cu55 cluster is not effective in decreasing the energy barrier of the first CH bond cleavage (the rate-determining step) as multiple Pd doping, but it facilitates the migration of adsorbed H atoms on the Cu surface, thus promoting the subsequent dehydrogenation.
Monometallic Pd catalyst is poorly selective to propylene in propane dehydrogenation. Zn addition can improve the selectivity greatly although the activity is still not comparable to that of the Pt catalyst.31 In and Zn have a similar effect on Pd catalyst because the formation of intermetallic PdZn, or PdIn prevents Pd from aggregating together and reduces the cracking of hydrocarbons.90,91 The addition of Ga can also enhance its dehydrogenation selectivity without obvious decrease of the reactivity.92 It is well known that the Pd membrane is H2 permeable. Gbenedio et al.93 prepared a membrane reactor by covering the Pd membrane on the outer surface of alumina hollow fibers in order to separate H2 from oil vapor during alkane dehydrogenation and break the limitation of thermodynamic equilibrium. However, the ingenious design suffers from the same problem, i.e., the low activity of the Pd catalyst. Peters et al.94 also tried this with PdAg and PdCu alloy membranes, but quick deactivation occurs due to coke deposition.
3.1.3 Supported Ni catalysts 3.1.3. 1 Ni-based catalysts Ni-based catalysts have been widely applied in various reactions, such as reformation,95,96 hydrogenation,97,98 oligomerization,99 and biomass gasification.100 Even though Ni and Pt are in the same group of the periodic table and possess many similar properties, different from Pt, Ni alone is not selective for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes. Under the typical conditions of dehydrogenation, Ni(ii) is easily reduced to metallic nickel. Take propane dehydrogenation as an example, due to the strong interaction between hydrocarbon and metal Ni, the main products are H2, methane and coke, rather than propylene.101,102 Therefore, Ni exhibits poor selectivity and stability for light alkane dehydrogenation.
DFT studies suggest that103 for propane dehydrogenation on Ni(111), the cleavage of the CC bond is more difficult than the CH activation due to the steric hindrance and higher energy barrier. However, propane tends to adsorb atop sites of the Ni(111) surface, with the adsorption energy of 0.61 eV, while propylene prefers to adsorb on the fcc and atop sites of Ni(111) surface, with the adsorption energy of 1.39 eV.103 Thus, deep dehydrogenation is more favorable than propylene desorption, leading to the poor selectivity to propylene and coke formation.
In order to inhibit deep dehydrogenation and CC bond breaking of alkanes, the strong interaction between Ni and formed alkenes should be weakened, i.e., to realize effective isolation of Ni atoms at the atomic level. Decreasing Ni loading seems to be a possible method, however, for isobutane dehydrogenation, the activity drops significantly even though the selectivity to isobutylene increases to higher than 60 wt%.104 The introduction of metal element such as Ga,32 Sn,105,106 Au101,107 and Cu108,109 to form bimetallic compounds, or non-metal element P,110,111 S33,104,112 to form the corresponding phosphides and sulfides is a more efficient approach to isolate Ni atoms.
3.1.3.2 Ni-based bimetallic catalysts An intermetallic compound catalyst consisting of Ni3Ga supported on alumina was reported to exhibit high olefin selectivity and good stability for propane and ethane dehydrogenation.32,113 Due to the unselective propane conversion caused by too many Ni sites, extremely low propylene selectivity can be observed for the (3:1 Ni:Ga)@Ni3Ga/Al2O3 sample, and with the decrease of the Ni:Ga ratio, the selectivity increases significantly.32 The isolated Ni sites facilitate dehydrogenation and enhance the conversion, while with the increase of surface Ga concentration, the reactivity is attenuated.113 Therefore, the Ni/Ga ratio should be optimized prudentially to balance the activity and selectivity.
Given the promoting effect of Sn on the dehydrogenation performance of the Pt-based catalyst, the influence of Sn addition on the Ni-based catalyst has been studied.105,106 Similarly, from the geometric aspect, the introduction of Sn effectively realizes the segregation of Ni atoms, breaking the active sites for cracking, and at the same time, electron donation from Sn to Ni occurs, facilitating the desorption of the formed olefins.106 Moreover, the adsorption energy of isobutylene decreases from 74 to 50 kJ mol1 with the addition of Sn.105 Thus, both high selectivity to isobutylene of 90.2% and good stability can be obtained over the NiSn/SiO2 catalyst.
Au and Cu have also been used in attempting to modify the unselective conversion of alkanes over the Ni-based catalyst. After the addition of Au to Ni/SiO2 catalyst, isolated Ni sites appear, and with the increase of Au loading, the selectivity to propylene increases monotonically, effectively inhibiting cracking reactions, while the conversion of propane decreases remarkably.101,107 Ni possesses a partially filled d-band, while Cu has a completely filled d-band, and thus, the combination of the two metals results in electronic interactions to form stable metallic compounds or alloys.114,115 When Cu is alloyed with Ni, the activity for CC bond rupture decreases significantly,109 which is probably caused by the reduced adsorption of the hydrocarbon intermediates. Moreover, Cu addition also enhances the resistance to coke formation over Ni-based catalysts.116
3.1.3.3 Non-metal element modified Ni-based catalysts The sulfide117,118 and phosphide119,120 of Ni have been extensively studied as the hydrogenation catalysts, and hydrogenation and dehydrogenation are reverse reactions, so they have been used as dehydrogenation catalysts. Moreover, it is believed that Ni exhibits poor selectivity and stability for light alkane dehydrogenation under the catalysis of aggregated Ni ensembles, and the introduced S and P can also act to isolate Ni at the atomic level to inhibit deep dehydrogenation and CC bond breaking of alkanes.
Comparatively speaking, the sulfide of Ni-based catalyst exhibits higher dehydrogenation activity than its phosphide, and cracking reactions have been effectively inhibited after the addition of sulfur.121 The NiS/SiO2 catalyst even possesses comparable catalytic performance with commercial Pt-based catalyst.33 Therefore, metal sulfide catalysts are regarded as one of the optimum candidates for dehydrogenation processes.
However, sulfur loss in the form of hydrogen sulfide cannot be avoided, leading to an irreversible decrease of the dehydrogenation activity.33 Hydrogen sulfide co-feeding with light alkanes is an appropriate approach to maintain the sulfide state of the metal.121 Besides NiS, the sulfides of other metals such as Fe, Co,33 Mo,122,123 also possess excellent dehydrogenation performance. Moreover, a fluidized bed reactor equipped with a regenerator and a pre-sulfidation section, which can replenish the lost sulfur on the catalyst, is also proposed to realize the continuous dehydrogenationregenerationsulfidation operation.112 It is also proved that the addition of P to Ni-based catalyst can modify the dehydrogenation performance for both light alkanes111,124 and cyclohexane110 effectively. For isobutane dehydrogenation, the selectivity to isobutylene increases to higher than 60% over the Ni2P/SiO2 catalyst,125 indicating that CC bond rupture is inhibited to some extent compared with the Ni/SiO2 catalyst (no isobutylene is formed). Similar results can also be achieved over Ni2P/active carbon,124 and the partial positive charges of Ni sites in Ni2P particles decrease the NiC bond strength and prevent excessive dehydrogenation. To further increase the selectivity, Cs has been introduced into the Ni2P-based catalyst; isobutylene selectivity of higher than 96% and 93% can be obtained over Ni2P/SiO2 and Ni2P/active carbon catalysts, respectively, and at the same time, an increased isobutane conversion and enhanced stability can be observed.124,125 The partial coverage of the Ni2P surface or boundaries between Ni2P and the carrier caused by the existence of CsOH decreases the strength and the number of the acid sites, leading to a decreased probability of cracking reactions; moreover, the good dispersion of Ni2P and electron transfer from Cs to Ni also results in the high selectivity to isobutylene.124,125 It is further demonstrated that the carrier plays an important role in the dehydrogenation performance, and smaller Ni2P particles exhibit higher activity. Therefore, the same research group has synthesized highly dispersed Ni2P embedded in a carbon framework through the carbonization of a Nialginate gel and further phosphidation,126 effectively inhibiting the aggregation and sintering of Ni2P particles. This novel catalyst presents higher dehydrogenation activity compared with the catalyst prepared using the traditional method, while the authors did not provide the dehydrogenation performance after catalyst regeneration, which should be given considering the potential problems for the regeneration of carbon-supported catalysts.
The dehydrogenation performance of the NiP catalyst is also affected by the introduced P content. For isobutane dehydrogenation over the NiP/SiO2 catalyst, with the increase of P loading amount, various NiP compounds (Ni3P, Ni12P5, Ni2P) are formed on the catalyst surface, leading to different dehydrogenation performances.111 As reported, Ni2P exhibits the optimum performance, and the decreased adsorption energy of isobutylene can be observed on the Ni2P surface, guaranteeing a high selectivity to isobutylene.
Nevertheless, the NiP catalyst demonstrates a poor stability for light alkane dehydrogenation, which is probably caused by coke deposition and irreversible phase transformation from Ni2P to Ni12P5. Moreover, the dehydrogenation activity is much lower than that of the corresponding NiS-based catalyst.
Above all, irrespective of the introduction of metal promoters or non-metal elements, the successful modification of a Ni-based catalyst as least shares the following characteristics. The effective isolation of large Ni particles should be realized to decrease the possibility for multipoint adsorption of alkane molecules, resulting in the prevention of the CC bond rupture. In addition, a higher electron density of Ni is more beneficial for the selectivity to olefins due to the weakening of the NiC bond and the facilitated desorption of olefins.
3.1.4 Supported Sn catalysts As stated above, Sn is well known to be an effective promoter of Pt-based catalysts,127130 and both the selectivity and stability can be improved due to its geometric and electronic effects.57,131 Inspiringly, Sn has been demonstrated to exhibit almost comparable dehydrogenation performance to PtSn-based catalysts when supported on appropriate carriers,132 profoundly refreshing and updating people's traditional understanding of Sn. Metallic Sn species on the catalyst surface are reported to be responsible for dehydrogenation, and the high selectivity to propylene is probably attributed to the inhibited multipoint adsorption of the reactant molecule on the liquid Sn atoms with lengthened distance under the reaction temperature. However, due to the low melting-point of metallic Sn, its loss occurs inevitably under the high reaction temperature, leading to the unexpected irreversible deactivation of the catalyst. The introduction of 0.05 wt% Pd into the Sn/SiO2 catalyst can obviously suppress coke formation and enhance the stability of the catalyst to some extent,132 while the problem of Sn loss cannot be resolved. In order to realize the effective anchoring and stabilizing of Sn species to the carrier, Sn-containing hexagonal mesoporous silica (HMS) has been synthesized, and at low Sn content Sn species are highly dispersed over the HMS substrate or even embedded into the lattice of HMS, resulting in a highly improved stability of the dehydrogenation performance.34 Besides anchoring approaches, alloying also seems to be a feasible method. Our group recently found that alloying Sn with Ni or Cu can fundamentally solve the problems of the loss of the low-melting-point metallic Sn species through the formation of NiSn and CuSn alloys, and at the same time, the high dehydrogenation performance can also be maintained.
Besides metallic Sn species, the isolated Sn2+ ions on silica also exhibit a high and stable dehydrogenation activity due to their strong interaction with the carrier,133 even though, further reduction of Sn2+ ions under the reductive atmosphere is inevitable. Therefore, although the Sn-based catalyst seems to be a promising alternative to the commercial dehydrogenation catalysts, there is still a long and tough way to go in the exploration of a more efficient approach (such as alloying or anchoring strategies) to realize the stabilization of mobile Sn species.
3.2 Metal oxide catalysts
3.2.1 CrOx-based catalysts CrOx-based catalysts have already been applied in industrial dehydrogenation processes such as FBD-4134 and Catofin,135 due to their satisfactory catalytic performance and good stability. The Cr loading of a typical commercial CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst is generally in the range of 1116 wt%, and an inevitable heterogeneous distribution of Cr species can be detected on the catalyst surface.136,137
Typically, the commercial fixed-bed CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts undergo 6000080000 dehydrogenationregeneration cycles,138 and thus, the surface Cr species probably change during the continuous cycles. Researchers compared the distribution of various Cr species on the fresh and equilibrium CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst surface.138 On the surface of fresh catalyst, the dominating Cr species are (1) isolated mono-/polychromate species bonded to alumina, (2) redox chromiumchromate on the surface or the border of amorphous and crystalline Cr2O3 clusters, and (3) non-redox Cr3+ species on the surface of amorphous and crystalline Cr2O3 clusters. On the contrary, for the equilibrated CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, the surface Cr species change as follows: (1) the small size (<300 ) of unstable amorphous Cr2O3 clusters migrate and collide with each other and form relatively stable Cr2O3 clusters with large size, (2) the isolated aluminum chromate species disappear and the number of redox Cr6+ species decreases, and (3) the crystalline -Cr2O3 clusters remain the same. The activity order of different Cr surface species decreases in the following sequence:139 non-redox Cr3+ on -Cr2O3 > redox Cr3+ species generated from the reduction of isolated mono-/polychromate species  non-redox Cr3+ on amorphous Cr2O3 > isolated non-redox Cr3+ and/or very small Cr2O3 clusters > redox aluminumchromiumchromate species.Industrial CrOx/Al2O3 catalysts suffer from rapid deactivation due to coke deposition, and frequent switching operation between reaction and regeneration is necessary. To decrease the acidity of alumina and inhibit coke formation, rod-shaped porous alumina is synthesized and applied as the carrier, resulting in high dehydrogenation activity and enhanced coking resistance.140 In order to further facilitate the good dispersion of Cr species, novel carriers with high specific surface area, such as CMK-3 carbon replica141 and MCM-41,35 have been tried. CrOx supported on both these two materials exhibits excellent catalytic performances for propane dehydrogenation. However, the continuous reaction-regeneration stability should be enhanced for these catalysts due to the unstable structure as well as the inevitable oxidation of the carbon carrier under high regeneration temperatures.Promoters such as Cu, Ni, Ce, have also been introduced into CrOx-based catalysts142144 to optimize the surface distribution of active Cr species. All these modifications facilitate the formation of oligomeric chromium species, and decrease the amount of inactive isolated Cr6+ sites, leading to improved dehydrogenation performance. Furthermore, given the high dehydrogenation activity of surface coordinatively unsaturated zirconium cations (Zrcus),145147 binary CrZrOx was prepared and demonstrated higher activity compared to the industrially relevant KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst due to the synergistic effect between Zr and Cr active sites.36,148,149 Although enhanced catalytic performance can be obtained through the screening of carrier and introduction of various kinds of promoters, the environmental issues associated with the application of CrOx-based catalysts are still unavoidable. Therefore, effective protective measures should be taken to keep workers away from the harmful effect of the catalyst. What is worse is that under high temperatures the formation of low-melting-point CrO3 inevitably occurs, which is detrimental to the stable operation of the dehydrogenation unit, and thus in the design, manufacture and application of the reactor the possible problems of the equipment caused by the molten CrO3 should be taken fully into account.
3.2.2 VOx-based catalysts Supported vanadium oxides have been widely studied as the potential alternative to the commercial Pt and CrOx-based catalysts, and recently much effort has been made to further modify the dehydrogenation performance as well as the stability of VOx-based catalysts. The catalytic performance is greatly affected by the choice of the carrier.150 As for VOx-based catalysts, the carrier usually changes the acidity, surface area, the dispersion and/or the electron state of vanadium species.151154 It is reported that, when Al2O3152 and MCM-4137 were used as the carriers, attractive dehydrogenation performances can be achieved. The selectivity to isobutylene of 85% was obtained at isobutane conversion of 50% over the VOx/Al2O3 catalyst for isobutane dehydrogenation (isobutane:nitrogen = 40:60, GHSV of 1200 L h1 kgcat1), and the high performance is mainly attributed to the appropriate polymerization extent of the VOx species and surface acidity.152 Among the surface species, V3+ is regarded as the most active site for propane dehydrogenation, while V4+ species are less active, but more stable against coke formation.155,156 A lot of efforts have been made to study the surface structure of VOx-based catalysts; however, there have been few studies of in-depth research on the surface VOx species under reaction conditions. Gong et al.157 studied the active sites of the VOx/Al2O3 catalyst for propane dehydrogenation under reductive conditions (in an atmosphere of hydrogen or propane). They discovered the important role of surface hydroxyl groups (VOH) formed under hydrogen reduction in suppressing coke deposition and enhancing catalyst stability at the cost of the dehydrogenation activity.
As stated above, MCM-41 with a large surface area and low acidity, is also an appropriate carrier for VOx-based catalysts.158 Research has indicated that isolated vanadium, with higher Lewis acidity, possesses higher intrinsic activity and lower selectivity to isobutylene compared with oligomerized vanadium species for isobutane dehydrogenation due to the increased possibility for isomerization of isobutylene and cracking reactions. However, for propane dehydrogenation, the selectivity changes slightly with the increase of the aggregation extent of the vanadium species since no isomerization reactions occur. The addition of B to the V-MCM-41 catalyst can further enhance the dispersion of vanadium species and improve the dehydrogenation activity and selectivity to olefins.159 Porous VSiO2 catalysts, demonstrating a mesoporous structure with high specific surface area, have also been synthesized, and vanadium species are highly dispersed in the channels of the mesoporous silica.37,38 Continuous reaction-regeneration tests indicate that the structures of porous silica and surface VOx species are stable.
Even though great efforts have been made to modify the dehydrogenation performance of VOx-based catalysts, the rapid deactivation observed with time on stream still cannot be avoided. Coke deposition on the catalyst surface is the main deactivation origin.158,160 With the progress of the dehydrogenation reaction, the preferentially generated carbonaceous species via cracking, oligomerization and aromatization, transformed from aliphatic into aromatic species, and eventually they converted into a mixture of polyaromatic and graphitic carbon deposited on the carrier.160 Therefore, further studies should be focused on enhancing the coke resistance of the catalyst and prolonging the time between regenerations.
3.2.3 ZrO2-based catalysts Surprisingly, the conventional carrier ZrO2145 or Al2O358 with surface defects has been demonstrated to exhibit relatively good dehydrogenation performance. Al2O3 itself can catalyze the dehydrogenation of light alkanes, while having a long induction period and relatively high coke formation rate. The coordinatively unsaturated Zrcus and Alcus sites are generally regarded to be responsible for dehydrogenation. As for ZrO2-based catalysts, in order to increase the number of active sites, doping with appropriate metal oxides seems to be efficient. The radius of the introduced dopant can influence the substitution of Zr species due to the size difference, and at the same time, the kind of introduced dopant will also affect the concentration of the oxygen vacancies as well as the active Zrcus sites.146 It has been demonstrated that the addition of La2O3 or Y2O3 can effectively enhance the formation of Zrcus, and especially the latter exhibits a more active and selective dehydrogenation performance.146
An induction period can also be detected since the coordinatively unsaturated Zrcus sites are active for dehydrogenation, and thus the high temperature reduction by hydrogen prior to reaction can facilitate the formation of the active Zrcus sites,146 and shorten the induction period effectively.161 Moreover, the reducibility of ZrO2 can be improved through the introduction of tiny amounts of hydrogenation-active metals Cu, Ru, Ni and Co into La2O3ZrO2 catalysts, and the dehydrogenation activity further increases due to the incremental concentration of Zrcus sites through the in situ reduction of ZrO2.39,145 However, over-reduction should be avoided to ensure the high activity of the ZrO2-based catalyst due to the decreased concentration of lattice oxygen playing a positive role in propane activation and the reduced number of Zrcus sites caused by facilitated oxygen diffusion from the bulk to the surface.146 Since two Zr cations with oxygen vacancy are responsible for the homolytic CH bond dissociation, the ability of ZrO2 to release lattice oxygen in the reducing atmosphere is of great importance. Besides the introduced dopant, the phase composition162 and crystallite size36,163 also affect the acidbase, redox and electrical conductivity properties of bare ZrO2, and correspondingly the concentration of active sites as well as the dehydrogenation performance.164 Monoclinic ZrO2 demonstrates higher dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity than tetragonal ZrO2 due to stronger reducibility of the former ensuring higher concentration of oxygen vacancies and Zrcus sites.164 With the decreasing size of crystallites, both the formation rate of propylene and propylene selectivity increase, since the oxygen located at surface defects or edges/corners can be more easily removed than that on the non-defective flat surface, thus creating more active sites.162,164 Actually, the structureactivity relationship of ZrO2-based catalyst has not been fully understood yet. The main obstacle lies in the high extent of heterogeneity on the surface of oxides. That is, various kinds of Zr and neighboring oxygen species with different coordination environments exist on the catalyst surface, and they change with the size, type and face of the crystals. The surface defects are also different and complex, thus a deep understanding on the real active sites should be developed. Moreover, although the dehydrogenation performance of modified ZrO2-based catalyst is comparable to that of the commercial catalysts,146 the high activity cannot last long. In order to lengthen the time between regenerations of the catalyst, the deactivation origin should be deeply studied further, and possible reasons are the changes of the chemical environment of the active Zr species and coke deposition. Therefore, maintaining the surface Zr species active and slowing down the coking rate are two effective measures to improve the stability for industrial applications. Moreover, whether the pre-reduction will be carried out prior to reaction should be considered due to the existing induction period of the ZrO2-based catalyst while the coke formation is also a problem worth considering since no direct data on coke yield are given in the open literature.
3.2.4 Ga2O3-based catalysts Ga2O3-based catalysts have also been widely studied for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes.40,165,166 Alumina and silica are the traditional carriers, and in order to realize the high dispersion of active Ga species, researchers deposited the larger Ga(i-Bu)3 complex on dehydrated and partially dehydroxylated surfaces of alumina and silica.40 Compared with silica supported Ga sites, Ga species grafted onto alumina exhibit higher activity in propane dehydrogenation, and it is possible that the existence of AlOGa is necessary to promote the heterolytic CH bond activation. Moreover, Lewis acid sites on alumina probably play an important role in stabilizing highly dispersed Ga sites. However, the dehydrogenation activity decreases gradually with time on stream. To suppress coke formation during the reaction over the Ga/-Al2O3 catalyst, Ba has been introduced.167 The coverage of surface tetrahedrally coordinated Ga by Ba leads to the decreased coke formation and increased ethylene selectivity.
Ga-containing MFI catalysts also exhibit high dehydrogenation activity, while the nature of the active sites under reaction conditions as well as the role of Brnsted and Lewis acid sites is still discussed controversially.168170 On the surface of Ga/H-MFI existed all the species Ga+, GaOx clusters, [GaO]+, [Ga2O2]2+, [Ga(OH)]2+, [Ga(OH)2]+, [GaH2]+, and [GaH]2+. Among these species, Ga+,171 monomeric [GaO]+ or dimeric [Ga2O2]2+ cations,172,173 and [GaH]2+168,170 have all been proposed to be active for the dehydrogenation of light alkanes. From the aspect of the acid sites, Brnsted acid sites are considered to catalyze cracking, dehydrocyclization and coking reactions. In order to modify the acidity caused by the presence of aluminum, aluminum-free gallosilicate MFI without Ga introduction, has been synthesized and evaluated for propane dehydrogenation.41 The obtained material shows a reduction in Brnsted acid sites and enhanced Lewis acidity, and decreasing the B/L acidity ratio is beneficial for the high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity; that is, the most effective catalyst should possess a small amount of Brnsted acidity coupled with strong Lewis acid sites. Subsequently, the same research group synthesized hierarchical Ga-MFI zeolites with higher Lewis acid site concentration.174 Compared with bulk Ga-MFI catalyst, hierarchical zeolites are intrinsically more active, with elevated propylene selectivity. Besides, Brnsted acid sites are important for propane dehydrogenation. Attributed to the large microporosity and Brnsted acidity, a high silica GaBeta catalyst with a Si/Ga ratio of up to 177 synthesized shows relatively good dehydrogenation performance.175 Moreover, Lewis(Ga+)-Brnsted acid pairs are identified as the active sites for propane dehydrogenation over Ga/H-ZSM-5. The increased Lewis acidity facilitates heterolytic CH bond activation, and Brnsted acidity reduces the activation barrier for the elimination of hydrogen.176 Ga2O3In2O3177 and Ga2O3ZnO178 mixed oxides have also been studied as catalysts for light alkane dehydrogenation. Whether on the basis of an active metal or a surface area, Ga2O3In2O3 exhibits higher propane conversion compared to In2O3Al2O3, while the selectivity to propylene is relatively low. In addition, the irreversible deactivation is caused by the formation of metallic In species and the aggregation of the In2O3 phase.177 An obvious synergistic effect of Ga2O3 and ZnO can be observed for isobutane dehydrogenation, that is, the Lewis acid sites supplied by the former facilitate heterolytic CH bond activation over the surface of the latter, leading to an increased isobutane conversion. The highly graphitized coke deposition on the catalyst is responsible for the activity loss during a long term run.178 Even though extensive research studies can be found on Ga2O3-based catalysts for light alkane dehydrogenation, the selectivity to mono-olefins still needs to be improved further due to the existence of acid sites. Moreover, the deactivation rate of the catalyst should be slowed down through the introduction of dopants. Given both the high price and high loading amount of Ga2O3, the application of this catalyst for light alkane dehydrogenation is almost impractical from an economic standpoint.
3.3 Other catalyst systems
Considering the relatively low reaction rate and fast deactivation of the bulk oxides, various of single-site catalysts, for example, Zn(ii),179,180 Fe(ii),181 Co(ii),42 and Ga(iii),182 have been tried as catalysts for light alkane dehydrogenation. In order to study the catalytic role of these isolated sites independently, inert carrier silica without Brnsted acid sites is applied, and at the same time, the Si vacancies on the surface can protect the low coordinated metal ions from reducing to metallic phase or sintering into metal oxide clusters.181 The selectivity to the corresponding olefin is generally higher than 90% due to the significantly high activation energy barrier of the undesired CC bond cleavage.179 However, the conversion of light alkanes is significantly lower per mass or per volume compared to other catalysts, even after Zr modification,183 and thus the single-site catalysts are far from application.
Very recently, supported catalytically active liquid metal solutions (SCALMS) introduced a new and promising concept for heterogeneous reaction.184186 For alkane dehydrogenation, supported Ga-containing liquid metal alloys have been studied, since Ga with a low melting point of 29.7 C can dissolve a variety of transition metals.187 GaxPd,185 GaxRh43,188 and GaxPt189 have been proved to exhibit higher activity, selectivity and stability than the corresponding solid catalysts, and the amount of introduced noble metals should not be high (Ga/Me atomic ratio > 10).
Because the liquid metal cannot provide solubility to the reactant, the catalytic reaction only takes place on the interface between the gas and the highly dynamic alloy liquid, and isolated active metal sites (such as Pd, Rh and Pt) dissolved in Ga are generally regarded to be responsible for dehydrogenation.43,185,189 Compared with the traditional solid counterparts, the electronic and steric properties of the active sites are totally different, and the advantages of SCALMS lie in the liquid nature realizing the maximum existence of homogeneously distributed noble metal atoms at the gas/liquid interface43 and the associated high mobility guaranteeing the high resistance to coking.184 SCALMS provides a novel and interesting approach to ensure the atomically isolated metal sites are created on the liquid surface even under the harsh reaction conditions, and therefore offers a high potential for reactions requiring only a single active metal atom such as light alkane dehydrogenation. However, the potential problems for the possible loss of the liquid metals under reaction temperatures are not discussed in these papers.
Actually, both the commercial Pt and CrOx-based catalysts exhibit satisfactory activity, selectivity and stability for light alkane dehydrogenation while the high cost of Pt and the harmful effect of CrOx drive the researchers to develop a novel inexpensive and environmental-friendly catalyst. At present, a lot of innovative research studies are opening up new directions, and many catalytic systems demonstrate comparable dehydrogenation performance with the commercial catalysts. However, problems such as rapid deactivation, the loss of active components, and high cost limit their application to some extent. In addition, the research on some cutting-edge systems is not complete and deep enough. Therefore, we still have a long way to go before a novel catalyst system is applied in industry.
4. Reaction mechanisms
Alkanes consist of nonpolar CC and CH bonds, which are composed of strongly localized electron pairs, resulting in harsh reaction conditions required for alkane activation.59 Because the average bond energy of CC bond (347 kJ mol1) is weaker than that of CH bond (414 kJ mol1), the cleavage of CC bonds occurs more easily.190 Thus, in order to obtain the dehydrogenation products (mono-olefins) rather than the cracking products, the CH bond should be selectively activated. Fortunately, for light alkanes such as propane and butane, H located at the exterior of the molecule preferentially bonds to the surface of the catalyst, while it is not easy for the interior C to firstly bond to the surface due to the steric hindrance, facilitating the selective activation and cleavage of the CH bond.1
4.1 Sequential dehydrogenation mechanism
The mechanism of formation of alkanes to mono-olefins, either via homogeneous coordination catalysis or over gas-solid catalysis, is generally considered to be sequential dehydrogenation.176,179,191194 For the dehydrogenation of alkanes over a solid catalyst, the alkane adsorbs on the catalyst surface through the H atom of a CH bond bonding to an active site, and then the H and C atoms directly adsorb on the surface of the catalyst after the cleavage of the CH bond (Fig. 3). Subsequently, the H atom of the adjacent CH bond bonds to the same or a neighboring active site, and then the CH bond breaks and the C and H atoms directly adsorb on the surface. If the two carbon atoms bond to the same active site, the olefin will adsorb on the surface via a  bond, and if they bond to two neighboring active sites, the olefin will adsorb via di- bonds (Fig. 4).87 The  bond is weaker than the di- bonds. After desorption an olefin is produced, and the two remaining adsorbed hydrogen atoms migrate to each other and desorb as H2. Zhu et al.46 combined DFT calculations and isotope tracer experiments of propane dehydrogenation over a supported Pt catalyst and indicated that the first CH bond activation is the rate-determining step on Pt(211) and Pt(100) while the activation of the second CH bond is kinetically relevant on Pt(111). Lian et al.75 also identified the dissociative adsorption of propane as the rate-determining step via DFT-based kinetic Monte Carlo simulations. Although there are some small differences in the details of the mechanism proposed by different researchers,168,170 it is generally consistent and has been accepted widely.44,46,193,195,196 Fig. 3 Geometries of the initial, intermediate and final states during propane dehydrogenation on the Cu(111) surface doped with one Pd atom. The two different reaction paths initiating from perpendicular and parallel adsorbed propane hardly being distinguished by the first-principles calculations of transition-state can be identified by the IR adsorption and Raman scattering spectra of all reactants, intermediates and final products.191 Reproduced from ref. 191 with permission from the MDPI, copyright 2018.
Fig. 4 Ethylene adsorbed on Pt2X clusters.87 Reproduced from ref. 87 with permission from the American Chemical Society, copyright 2018.
4.2 Possible problems of the sequential dehydrogenation mechanism
As for the sequential dehydrogenation mechanism, however, there are two problems worth discussing.
Firstly, after the cleavage of the first CH bond, the alkyl adsorbs on the surface via the direct bonding of the C atom to the active site. If the interaction between the C atom and the active site is very strong, it will be difficult for the adsorbed olefin to desorb when the second CH bond breaks and two carbon atoms bond to the surface via  or di- bonds, leading to a deep dehydrogenation and even coke formation. After deep dehydrogenation, it is even more difficult for the highly unsaturated hydrocarbon adsorbed on the surface through di- bonds and one or two bonds to desorb.197 In fact, very high selectivity to mono-olefins can be achieved for alkane dehydrogenation over the catalyst with excellent performance under appropriate conditions. For example, it is reported that the highest selectivity to propylene is above 99 mol% in propane dehydrogenation over supported PtSn catalysts.19,198 This means that almost all the formed propylene adsorbed on the catalyst surface desorb and almost no deep dehydrogenation occurs. However, the products of deep dehydrogenation, especially coke increase upon prolonging the mean residence time and increasing backmixing of oil vapor in the reactor, as well as adding olefins to alkanes.199 All these merely create more opportunities for olefins to have contact with the catalyst. If the olefins formed by alkane dehydrogenation are adsorbed on the catalyst at the beginning of the reaction, these factors will not cause a significant increase in coke. This further indicates that the olefins formed by alkane dehydrogenation are not adsorbed on the catalyst.
Secondly, the formation of H2 in the sequential dehydrogenation mechanism is only the result of CH bond cleavage and olefin formation, and not the driving force. And if we think about it the other way around, will dehydrogenation happen without the formation of H2? Obviously not. Therefore, the formation of H2 should be one of the driving forces of CH bond cleavage. Furthermore, the two hydrogen atoms, sequentially removed from an alkane molecule, are bonded to different sites on the catalyst surface, resulting in a distance between the two adsorbed hydrogen atoms. They have to rely on mutual attraction to overcome the resistance and combine to form H2. The interaction between H and the catalyst surface should be strong, for otherwise it is not sufficient to break CH bond. However, the problem of whether the mutual attraction between the two hydrogen atoms can overcome the resistance caused by the strong interaction between H and the surface should be considered. In fact, it seems that there are no evident obstacles for the formation of H2 during alkane dehydrogenation.
4.3 One-step dehydrogenation mechanism
We have to admit that it is very difficult to study the dehydrogenation mechanism of light alkanes such as propane over solid catalysts at high temperatures, and it is almost impossible to identify the intermediate species of the reaction. Therefore, how the reaction is carried out on the surface of a catalyst can only be speculated based on experimental phenomena and theoretical calculations.
It is known that alkane dehydrogenation is a very fast reaction, and the conversion can approach the thermodynamic equilibrium within 1 s. Maybe just in an instant, an alkane molecule collides with the catalyst surface and converts to an olefin molecule. Fast collisions between alkane molecules and the catalyst proceed ceaselessly, although not all of the collisions are efficient. Only those collisions with both enough energy and specific orientation at the active sites may lead to the formation of the desired product.
For alkane dehydrogenation it is likely that the two hydrogen atoms bonded with adjacent carbons of the alkane molecule collide with the active site at the same time, leading to the formation of a mono-olefin. Then the cleavage of the CH bond results from the interaction of the two hydrogen atoms with the active site and the mutual attraction of the two hydrogen atoms (Fig. 5). Thus, after the cleavage of the two CH bonds, the two hydrogen atoms combine together to form adsorbed H2 and the produced olefin diffuses into the gas phase directly without desorbing from the surface. The adsorbed H2 plays an important role in reducing the re-adsorption of olefins and increasing the selectivity because olefins are easy to adsorb and react further on the surface of catalyst.1 Thus, the measures taken to reduce the opportunity for olefin re-adsorption on the catalyst, such as reducing the ability of catalyst to adsorb olefins, shortening residence time and weakening backmixing, can effectively improve the selectivity to olefins.
Fig. 5 One-step dehydrogenation mechanism.1 Reproduced from ref. 1 with permission from the SCIENTIA SINICA Chimica, copyright 2018.
However, the concerted mechanism of propane dehydrogenation over Al2O3 proposed by Dixit et al. has been proved to be energetically preferred to the sequential one obtained via DFT calculations and first-principles molecular dynamics simulations.200 It is just similar to the one-step mechanism discussed above: two hydrogen atoms bonded with adjacent carbon atoms adsorb on two active sites and the corresponding two CH bonds break simultaneously followed by the formation of H2via the combination of the two adsorbed hydrogen atoms. They also discovered that the dehydrogenation activity of an active site has some relationship with the binding energy of dissociative H atoms.
4.4 Guiding roles of the one-step dehydrogenation mechanism
The correct understanding of dehydrogenation mechanism is of great significance to the design and development of both catalyst and reactor.
If the one-step mechanism is probable, the spacing between the active sites should match the chain length of the alkane molecule; otherwise, alkadienes may be formed by the collision of more than one pair of hydrogen atoms with the active sites. The shortest distance between the two hydrogen atoms bonded with the adjacent carbons of alkane molecules is about 0.25 nm; thus, for propane dehydrogenation, the spacing between two neighboring active sites should be larger than this value, or else, the probability that two pairs of hydrogen atoms like this simultaneously collide on the two active sites will increase and deep dehydrogenation occurs. In the fcc structure of Pt, each Pt atom is surrounded by 12 Pt neighbors at a bond distance of 0.277 nm. There are fewer PtPt neighbors in the common alloy of Pt3M and PtM, resulting in a longer PtPt distance and better mono-olefin selectivity than that in monometallic Pt particles.62 For example, the distance reaches about 0.281 nm in PtZn/SiO2.26 Besides noble metal Pt and Pd, many other metals such as Ni, Co, and Fe can activate alkanes, but the selectivity to olefins is very low and the main products are H2, CH4 and coke. After transforming these metals to metal sulfides by H2S or other sulfur-containing compounds, the selectivity to isobutylene exceeds 80% for isobutane dehydrogenation over all these catalysts.33,104 The fundamental cause of the great change in selectivity should be attributed to the longer distance between metal atoms in metal sulfides than that in metals. Similar effects can also be observed for the NiP catalyst discussed above. It is worth noting that for a Sn-based catalyst, the low-melting-point of Sn results in a longer distance between liquid Sn atoms under the reaction temperature, inhibiting the adsorption of more than one pair of hydrogen atoms and increasing olefin selectivity.
If a catalyst possesses good performance for propane dehydrogenation, it will be effective for isobutane dehydrogenation to isobutylene, and vice versa. Actually, the dehydrogenation of isobutane occurs more easily than propane because the CH bond dissociation energy of the tertiary carbon of isobutane (390 kJ mol1) is lower than that of the secondary carbon of propane (398 kJ mol1).201,202 However for n-butane dehydrogenation, the selectivity to 1-butylene and 2-butylenes is not high, because some n-butane is converted to 1,3-butadiene. Thus for n-butane dehydrogenation to mono-olefins, the spacing of two adjacent active sites should be even larger to reduce the formation of 1,3-butadiene caused by the direct dehydrogenation of n-butane. However, if 1,3-butadiene is the desired product, it will be favorable to shorten the spacing by increasing the density of active sites. Similarly, when the catalyst applied in propane dehydrogenation is used for the dehydrogenation of heavier alkanes such as pentane, the yield of coke is generally higher.
According to the one-step dehydrogenation mechanism, shortening the mean residence time of oil vapor in the catalyst bed of the reactor is the most effective measure to improve the selectivity to olefins, since the formed olefins go straight into the gas phase without desorbing from the active sites.
5. Reactors
5.1 Reactor type and operation manner
The strong endothermic effect not only leads to a high energy consumption of dehydrogenation processes, but also influences the operating manner of the reactor because sufficient heat should be provided to the reactor in time to keep the temperature constant. Approaches to supply heat to the reactor are closely related to the reactor type, which is heavily dependent on the price, properties and performance of the catalyst applied. So far, the catalysts applicable in commercial units have supported PtSn and CrOx catalysts, and the reactor types are packed-bed, moving-bed and circulating fluidized-bed reactors. Since these solid catalysts are poor conductors of heat, adiabatic operation is the best choice via heating the feed, heating the catalyst, or a combination of the two to provide heat for the reaction.
In the process of dehydrogenation, CrOx catalyst deactivates by coking in a short time and requires to be regenerated by coke-burning frequently, while the PtSn catalyst deactivates due to coking and sintering, and needs to be regenerated by oxychlorination with air and chloride.44 In the moving-bed and circulating fluidized-bed reaction/regeneration systems, alkane dehydrogenation and spent catalyst regeneration proceed continuously, for the fixed-bed reactor; however, the reaction and regeneration can only be done intermittently.
In terms of catalytic performance alone, PtSn and CrOx catalysts can be used in the three types of reactors. In a circulating fluidized-bed reaction/regeneration system, the fine powder (particle size less than 10 m) of the catalyst generated by abrasion cannot be recycled by cyclones and will be lost with flue gas and oil vapor, and thus the catalyst consumption is much higher than that in the moving-bed reactor. Consequently, considering the cost, the expensive Pt catalyst is not suitable for the circulating fluidized-bed reactor. In fact, given the potential environmental problems, CrOx catalyst is also inapplicable, because CrO3 formed in the regenerator is highly toxic and difficult to be treated. In addition, the catalyst used in the circulating fluidized-bed reactor should be resistant to abrasion and impact.
Up to now, several processes have been commercialized, such as OleflexTM, CatofinTM, STARTM, LindeTM, and FBD-4, among which OleflexTM and CatofinTM have been applied widely and successfully. Here, the typical fixed-bed CatofinTM and moving-bed OleflexTM are briefly introduced, and then ADHO, a process of alkane dehydrogenation developed by China University of Petroleum is also presented.
5.2 Typical reaction/regeneration systems
5.2.1 Fixed-bed reaction/regeneration system-CatofinTM ABB Lummus's CatofinTM uses CrOx/Al2O3 catalyst and fixed-bed reactors.44,50 The shallow catalyst-bed is applied to reduce pressure drop (Fig. 6), leading to a decreased energy consumption. To improve the single-pass conversion, the reactors are operated below atmospheric pressure.
Fig. 6 Schematic of reaction system of CatofinTM. Use shallow catalyst-bed to reduce pressure drop.
Prior to entering the reactors, the feed (propane or isobutane) is vaporized and then heated to about 600 C by heat-exchange with a hot effluent and heating in the furnace. In order to minimize non-selective cracking during preheating, the temperature should not be higher than 600 C and a small quantity of sulfiding agent has to be injected into the feed to passivate the metal surface of the heat exchanger and furnace tube. The feed is converted to olefins while passing through the fixed-bed reactors.
There are five reactors operating in a cyclic manner. One cycle includes dehydrogenation of alkane, purging with steam, reheating the catalyst-bed by burning coke and tail gas with hot air during regeneration, evacuation by steam injection pump, and reducing the catalyst and removing adsorbed oxygen with offgas. At any given time, two reactors are dehydrogenating, two reactors are on reheat, and one reactor is on evacuation, steam purge or catalyst reduction. Each reactor goes through the same cycle automatically and the process is controlled by hydraulically operated valves.
5.2.2 Moving-bed reaction/regeneration system-OleflexTM The OleflexTM process, developed by Honeywell UOP in 1980s and commercialized successfully in Thailand in 1990, uses a continuous moving-bed reaction/regeneration system with PtSn/Al2O3 as the catalyst.44,50
The reaction/regeneration system consists of four furnaces and four reactors in series and a regenerator (Fig. 7). After the removal of poisons such as S and metals, the alkane passes through all the furnaces and reactors in turn, and then the effluent out of the fourth reactor goes to the separation system after heat exchange. H2 is introduced into each of the four reactors to slow down coking rate and minimize thermal cracking. The spherical catalyst moves slowly from the first reactor to the fourth one. The spent catalyst out of the fourth reactor is transported to the regenerator for coke-burning with air and redispersion of sintered Pt particles with chloride, and then the regenerated catalyst is recycled back to the first reactor. A certain amount of chlorine entrained by regenerated catalyst inevitably enters the reactor, so water should be kept out of the reactors to avoid the corrosion of the follow-up systems. The flue gas should also be dechlorinated to avoid environment pollution.
Fig. 7 Schematic of reaction/regeneration system of OleflexTM. Four low pressure-drop radial fixed-bed reactors in series.
The four reactors are operated adiabatically and the heat required for the reaction is mainly provided by heating the feed to the temperature of 610650 C before entering the reactor. High pressure is not conducive to dehydrogenation, so radial reactors with lower pressure drop are adopted here. Even so, the total pressure drop from the inlet of the first reactor to the outlet of the fourth reactor is around 0.2 MPa. Therefore, although the pressure at the outlet of the fourth reactor is close to the atmospheric pressure, the algebraic average pressure of the overall catalyst bed is around 0.1 MPa(G), which is unfavorable to dehydrogenation from the perspective of thermodynamic equilibrium. In addition, the H2 introduced for suppressing coke formation and thermal cracking decreases the conversion further. Moreover, the catalyst with smaller particle size used in the radial reactors is beneficial to reduce the internal diffusion resistance, inhibit the secondary reactions of olefin and improve its selectivity.
5.2.3 Circulating fluidized-bed reaction/regeneration system-ADHO The pressure drop of a circulating fluidized-bed reactor is lower than that of a packed-bed or moving-bed, thus it is favorable for the conversion of alkane. In addition, it is very convenient to regenerate the spent catalyst and supply heat for the reaction by the high temperature regenerated catalyst. Moreover, the average particle size of the catalyst used in the fluidized-bed reactor is generally 6080 m, and the effect of internal diffusion on the activity and selectivity can be ignored. However, a significant disadvantage of the fluidized bed reactor is the high catalyst consumption due to abrasion, which demonstrates that the expensive or toxic catalysts should not be used. That is to say, neither the supported PtSn nor the CrOx catalyst is applicable in this kind of system. Although the supported CrOx catalyst has been applied in FBD-4,44 a countercurrent circulating fluidized-bed reaction/regeneration process, nowadays its application is limited by the strict environmental regulations due to the existence of toxic CrO3 on the regenerated catalyst.
In view of this, our group developed an environmentally friendly and non-noble catalyst for alkane dehydrogenation, equipped with a low backmixing co-current circulating fluidized-bed reaction/regeneration system (Fig. 8).203,204 This process of alkane dehydrogenation to olefin is called ADHO.
Fig. 8 Flow diagram of ADHO reaction-regeneration system.
The WO3-containing catalyst, highly active and selective, has been applied in the ADHO process. For the dehydrogenation of pure propane at 600 C and 0.13 MPa, the conversion of propane and the selectivity to propylene reach about 43% and 90% (see the product distribution listed in Table 2), respectively. In addition, pretreatment of the feed is unnecessary. The catalyst cannot be poisoned by a small amount of sulfur and metals. Under normal operating conditions, the catalyst only deactivates by coking, so coke-burning by air can recover the activity completely. The comparison of the ADHO technology and the commercial dehydrogenation processes are listed in Table 3.
Table 2 Product distribution of propane dehydrogenation over ADHO catalysta Yield (%) Selectivity (%) Methane 0.9 2.1 Ethane 0.6 1.4 Ethylene 0.7 1.7 Propylene 38.7 89.9 Butenes 0.6 1.5 Coke 1.5 3.4 a Reaction conditions: average catalyst bed temperature of 600 C, absolute pressure of 0.13 MPa.
Table 3 Comparison of the ADHO technology with commercial processes ADHO1 ABB Lummus Catofin44,59 Honeywell UOP Oleflex44,59 Reactor and regenerator Co-current recycling fluidized-bed continuous reaction/regeneration system Adiabatic multiple fixed-bed reactors in parallel, regeneration in situ Adiabatic moving-bed continuous reaction/regeneration system, generally four reactors in series and a regenerator Catalyst WO3-containing catalyst Supported CrOx catalyst Supported PtSn catalyst Deactivation of catalyst Deposition of coke Deposition of coke and sintering of alumina support Deposition of coke and sintering of Pt nanoparticles Regeneration Coke combustion Coke combustion Oxychlorination, coke combustion by air and Pt redispersion by adding chlorine Time between regenerations Continuous 2030 minutes 24 days Heat supply Regenerated catalyst Heating catalyst during regeneration Preheating the feed and intermediate gases before each reactor Reaction temperature (outlet of reactor), C 600 590650 600 Reaction pressure (outlet of reactor), MPa(a) 0.130.14 0.030.05 0.13 Partial pressure of H2 (outlet of reactor), MPa(a)   0.06 Propane conversion (%) 43 45 32 Propylene selectivity (%) 90 8287 8991 Catalyst lifetime Adding fresh catalyst daily because dusts formed due to particle attrition cannot be taken back by cyclone separators 23 years 23 years In the ADHO process, the reaction/regeneration system consists of a reactor and a regenerator, and they have similar structures. The high temperature (700 C) regenerated catalyst withdrawn from the dense phase catalyst bed in the regenerator disengager enters the reactor through the regenerated catalyst slanted tube after degassing, and the flow quantity of the catalyst (G1) is regulated by the regenerated catalyst slide valve. The catalyst contacts with the feed, and both of them flow up together and react simultaneously. The mean reaction temperature, controlled by G1 and the temperature of the feed, is around 600 C. Under steady state, the flow quantity of the catalyst passing through the dilute phase transporting tube of the reactor (G2) is equal to G1. The catalyst and oil vapor are separated in the disengager of the reactor. The spent catalyst goes back to the regenerator through the spent catalyst slanted tube after stripping by steam, and the oil vapor leaves the reactor to the separation system after recovering the entrained catalyst by the two-stage high efficiency cyclones. The flow quantity of the catalyst through the spent catalyst slanted tube (G3) and the height of the dense phase catalyst bed in the reactor disengager h1 are regulated by the spent catalyst slide valve and kept constant, and G3 is also equal to G1. The selectivity to coke is very low (around 3 wt% for propane dehydrogenation), and the heat released from coke combustion is far from enough to meet the requirement of the heat balance, so additional fuel (natural gas or dry gas after separation of hydrogen) should be injected into the regenerator. The spent catalyst is regenerated by coke burning with air at about 700 C. The regenerated catalyst flows into the regenerator disengager through the dilute phase transporting tube of the regenerator with the flow quantity of G4. G4 should be larger than G1. The excess catalyst G5 (= G4  G1) returns to the bottom of the regenerator through an external circulating tube. The flow quantity G5 and the height of the dense phase catalyst bed in the regenerator disengager h2 are regulated by the external circulating slide valve. Another purpose of returning part of the high temperature regenerated catalyst to the bottom of the regenerator is to keep the bottom temperature high enough for the fuel added to burn smoothly.
6. Summary and prospects
After decades of development, gratifying progress has been made from fundamental research to application, and technologies of propane and isobutane dehydrogenation have been applied commercially although a large margin for improvement still exists especially for propane dehydrogenation. It is worth noting that energy conservation, environmental protection and safety are the requirements of chemical production, and also the goal of novel alkane dehydrogenation technologies. In terms of catalysts, the development of a highly coking and sintering-resistant Pt catalyst is an important direction, and researchers have already achieved exciting improvements. However, for new environment-friendly catalysts, the long term stability of both the dehydrogenation performance and the structural properties is of great importance for industrial application. Moreover, the exploration of in situ characterization techniques for in-depth research on the reaction mechanism as well as the nature of the active sites of the catalyst is also a great challenge. As for the development of dehydrogenation reactors, the key is to improve efficiency with reduced pressure drop, since reducing the operation pressure of the reactor is helpful to enhance the single-pass conversion and reduce the energy consumption of the whole process.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the primary synthesis methods for metal-zeolite catalysts used in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, explaining why MFI and BEA topological zeolites dominate in this application. How do their structural characteristics and other factors contribute to their effectiveness, and what are the implications for future developments in PDH catalyst design?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X20211200

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.90%

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 