<quotes>
[1] "Some hydrogen-deuterium exchange reactions of benzene and toluene on y-alumina and magnesium oxide have been investigated."
[2] "We also wished to know whether the linear relationship between the ease of exchange of hydrocarbons and their acidity found for alkanes 5 9 and probably applicable to alkenes 6 , could be extended to include the reactions of aromatic compounds."
[3] "The exchange of alkanes and alkenes with deuterium on magnesium oxide appears to involve intermediates with carbanionic character similar to those found for alumina."
[4] "For those reactions in which a single hydrocarbon underwent exchange the apparatus used was essentially that described before."
[5] "The rate and activation energy of exchange for benzene with D2 found in this work are very close to those reported by Saunders and Hightwer."
[6] "The exchange of alkanes and cycloalkanes with D2 on y-alumina has shown that the ease of replacement of a given hydrogen atom is governed by its acidity."
[7] "The high acidity associated with the methyl hydrogens of toluene is attributable to the considerable stabilization of the benzyl carbanion afforded by the delocalization of the negative charge on the a-carbon atom through the n-system of the ring."
[8] "The rate determining step for this process is the fission of a carbon-hydrogen bond of the side-group."
[9] "There seems to be some parallel between magnesium oxide and titanium dioxide (rutile) for reactions of propene and toluene, although titanium dioxide is a much less active catalyst."
[10] "The exchange of toluene with C6D6 is significantly faster than the corresponding exchange with deuterium."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Hydrogen-deuterium exchange reactions of benzene and toluene on y-alumina and magnesium oxide have been explored. The study aimed to understand if the linear relationship between the ease of hydrocarbon exchange and their acidity, applicable to alkanes and alkenes, could extend to aromatic compounds.

2. The exchange of alkanes and alkenes with deuterium on magnesium oxide involves intermediates with carbanionic characteristics similar to those found on alumina.

3. The apparatus used for single hydrocarbon exchange experiments was similar to that described in previous studies.

4. The rate and activation energy for benzene exchange with deuterium in this study are nearly identical to those reported by Saunders and Hightower.

5. The ease of replacing hydrogen atoms in alkanes and cycloalkanes with deuterium on y-alumina is determined by their acidity.

6. The high acidity of toluene's methyl hydrogens stems from the benzyl carbanion's stabilization due to the delocalization of the negative charge across the ring system.

7. The rate-determining step in the intermolecular transfer of deuterium involves the cleavage of a carbon-hydrogen bond in the side group.

8. There exists a likeness between magnesium oxide and titanium dioxide (rutile) for propene and toluene reactions, with magnesium oxide showing greater reactivity.

9. The exchange of toluene with C6D6 happens at a faster rate than with deuterium, indicating slower deuterium adsorption-desorption processes in the presence of aromatic molecules.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 对苯和甲苯在y-氧化铝和镁氧化物上的氢氘交换反应进行了研究。研究旨在了解是否可以将烷烃和烯烃的交换易度与酸性之间的线性关系扩展到芳香族化合物。

2. 烷烃和烯烃在镁氧化物上与氘交换的过程涉及与铝氧化物中发现的具有碳负离子特性的中间体。

3. 单个烃类交换实验所使用的装置类似于之前的描述。

4. 这一研究中苯与氘的交换速率及其活化能与Saunders和Hightower报告的数据非常接近。

5. 烷烃和环烷烃在铝氧化物上的氘交换速率由它们的酸性决定。

6. 对于甲苯的甲基氢来说，其高酸性归因于环状系统中的负电荷通过环结构的n-系统进行的离域，从而稳定了苯基碳正离子。

7. 在分子间氘转移过程中，决定性的步骤是侧链中碳氢键的断裂。

8. 镁氧化物与钛氧化物（锐钛矿）在丙烯和甲苯反应中存在相似之处，尽管锐钛矿的活性较低。

9. 与氘相比，甲苯与C6D6的交换速率更快，这表明在芳香分子存在的条件下，氘的吸附-脱附过程较慢。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
