<quotes>
On the nature and reactivity of active oxygen species formed from O2 and N2O on VOx/MCM-41 used for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane

E.V. Kondratenko, A. Brckner *

Leibniz-Institut für Katalyse an der Universität Rostock e. V., Albert-Einstein-Straße 29a, D-18059 Rostock, Germany

Abstract: Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy under controlled atmosphere conditions has been applied to elucidate the nature and reactivity of oxygen species formed upon reoxidation of a reduced VOx(2.7 wt.%)/MCM-41 catalyst by gas-phase O2 or N2O.

1. Introduction: Oxidative dehydrogenation of light alkanes (e.g. propane) to the corresponding olefins (e.g. propene) is a true challenge for catalysis research since it opens attractive ways for converting cheap and abundant raw materials to valuable building blocks for the modern petrochemical industry.

2. Experimental: 2.1. Catalyst: The preparation and characterization of the supported VOx/MCM-41 catalyst with a vanadium content of 2.7% has been described in detail in Ref. [13].

2.2. EPR measurements under controlled atmosphere conditions: EPR measurements were performed at 77 K on a Bruker ELEXSYS 500-10/12 cw-EPR spectrometer in X-band (microwave frequency  9.5 GHz) using an ER 4102ST rectangular cavity, and in Q-band (microwave frequency  35 GHz) using an ER 5106QT low temperature cylindrical cavity.

3. Results: 3.1. Nature of oxygen species formed upon adsorption of O2 or N2O on reduced VOx/MCM-41: The EPR spectrum of as-prepared VOx/MCM-41 is characterized by a hyperfine structure (hfs) signal, which is typical for axially distorted isolated V4+ species in octahedral or square-pyramidal coordination.

3.2. Reactivity of adsorbed oxygen species against propane, propene, and carbon monoxide: The reactivity of oxygen species formed upon reoxidation of reduced VOx species by O2 was investigated by in-situ EPR in the following way.

4. Discussion: X-band shfs signals with similar multiline features like those in Fig. 1 have been previously reported by Kazansky et al. after oxygen adsorption on a partially reduced V2O5/SiO2 catalyst [27].

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
This passage describes the use of electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy to study the nature and reactivity of oxygen species formed when a reduced vanadium oxide catalyst, supported on mesoporous silica (MCM-41), is reoxidized by either molecular oxygen (O2) or nitrous oxide (N2O). The focus is on understanding how these oxygen species affect the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane to propene, a process important in petrochemical industries. The catalyst preparation, experimental methods, results, and discussion highlight the identification of Vn+ O (where n=4 or 5) radical anion species and their interactions with propane, propene, and carbon monoxide. The findings suggest that the different electronic nature of these oxygen intermediates influences the selectivity of the ODH reaction when using N2O versus O2.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
本文描述了使用电子顺磁共振（EPR）光谱法研究还原态钒氧化物催化剂（支撑在微孔硅酸盐（MCM-41）上）在分子氧（O2）或硝酸氮（N2O）重新氧化时形成的氧物种的性质和反应性。重点在于理解这些氧物种如何影响丙烷向丙烯的氧化脱氢（ODH），这是一个在石油化学工业中至关重要的过程。催化剂制备、实验方法、结果和讨论强调了识别Vn+ O（其中n=4或5）的自由基离子物种及其与丙烷、丙烯和一氧化碳的相互作用。发现不同电子性质的这些氧中间体影响了使用N2O与使用O2进行ODH反应的产物选择性。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
