<quotes>
JOURNAL OF CATALYSIS 91, 155-166 (1985) The Dehydrogenation of Ethane over Chromium Catalysts HELI J. LUGOANDJACK H. LUNSFORD Department of Chemistv, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77843 Received May 31, 1984; revised September 1, 1984

The nature of the active sites for ethane dehydrogenation over chromium supported on silica gel has been studied by infrared spectroscopy, together with kinetic measurements. Low nuclearity A- type chromium(I1) ions are believed to be the active sites for ethane dehydrogenation on Cr/SiOZ catalysts. Higher dehydration temperatures increased the concentration of active A-type chro- mium(H) ions. The apparent activation energy was the same for different dehydration temperatures, which indicates that the number but not the type of site changed upon dehydration at elevated temperatures. The active A-type chromium(I1) sites were selectively poisoned by carbo- naceous deposits during the dehydrogenation of ethane. Turnover frequencies, based on the calcu- lated number of surface chromium atoms, were similar for Cr/SiOZ, Cr/A1201, and o-CrZOs, but a CrY zeolite was essentially inactive since chromium ions remain in the +3 oxidation state. o 1985 Academic Press, Inc
</quotes>

Answer: The active sites for ethane dehydrogenation over chromium supported on silica gel are believed to be low nuclearity A-type chromium(I1) ions. Higher dehydration temperatures increase the concentration of these active A-type chromium(H) ions. The apparent activation energy remains constant across different dehydration temperatures, indicating that the number of sites changes but not the type. The A-type chromium(I1) sites are selectively poisoned by carbonaceous deposits during ethane dehydrogenation. Turnover frequencies based on the calculated number of surface chromium atoms are similar for Cr/SiOZ, Cr/A1201, and o-CrZOs, but a CrY zeolite is essentially inactive due to chromium ions remaining in the +3 oxidation state.

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
活性位点为低核度A型铬（I1）离子，存在于氧化铝支持的铬催化剂上。较高的脱水温度增加了这些活性A型铬（H）离子的浓度。不同脱水温度下的显着激活能保持不变，表明改变的是位点的数量而非类型。活性A型铬（I1）位点在乙烷脱氢过程中会被碳沉积物选择性地毒害。根据表面铬原子数计算的周转频率对于Cr/SiOZ、Cr/A1201和o-CrZOs来说相似，但CrY沸石基本上是无活性的，因为铬离子保持在+3氧化态。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
