<quotes>

[1] "DFT calculations were used to examine the adsorption of the three linear alkenes, 1-butene, 1-pentene and 1-hexene on monometallic and bimetallic transition metal surfaces."
[2] "The binding energies of these alkenes on different surfaces were then compared against the d-band center of the substrates."
[3] "Fig. 1 , Fig. 2 , Fig. 3 b show the binding energy vs. d-band center relationship for 1-butene, 1-pentene and 1-hexene, respectively."
[4] "Overall, the trends in the figures show that the binding energies of the linear alkenes on the subsurface bimetallics (PtNiPt, PtCuPt, PtCoPt, PtFePt) are uniformly lower than those on the Pt(1 1 1) surface."
[5] "In order to compare DFT calculations with experimental results, Fig. 5 shows the TPD results after dosing cyclohexene on the Ni/Pt(1 1 1) and Cu/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces."
[6] "The activities for each bimetallic surface are listed in Table 2 . Consistent with the strong binding energy of cyclohexene, there is a substantial pathway for decomposition on NiPtPt(1 1 1)."
[7] "In contrast, the total activity on the PtNiPt(1 1 1) surface is much lower than either Pt(1 1 1) or NiPtPt(1 1 1), which can be attributed to the weaker binding of cyclohexene on this subsurface structure, as predicted by the DFT calculations."
[8] "The interaction of cyclohexene with Cu/Pt(1 1 1) bimetallic surfaces was also examined."
[9] "These observations are consistent with the DFT results for binding energy of cyclohexene on these three surfaces."
[10] "The results for binding energy vs. the surface d-band center are depicted in Fig. 6 c."
[11] "As seen for the other molecules, it is apparent that the binding becomes weaker as the surface d-band center moves away from the Fermi level."
[12] "It is also apparent from Fig. 6 c that the binding on all the subsurface Pt3dPt(1 1 1) structures is very weak as compared to Pt(1 1 1)."
[13] "The effect of hydrocarbon chain length has been studied by comparing the adsorption of the linear alkenes on the metal surfaces."
[14] "The binding of 1-hexene and cyclohexene was compared in order to study the effect of cyclic structure and the results showed that the binding energy is lower for the cyclic structure on almost all the bimetallic surfaces."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.DFT calculations were used to study the adsorption of three linear alkenes (1-butene, 1-pentene, and 1-hexene) on monometallic and bimetallic transition metal surfaces. The binding energies of these alkenes on different surfaces were compared against the d-band center of the substrates. The binding energy vs. d-band center relationship for 1-butene, 1-pentene, and 1-hexene was shown in figures. The binding energies of the linear alkenes on the subsurface bimetallics (PtNiPt, PtCuPt, PtCoPt, PtFePt) were uniformly lower than those on the Pt(1 1 1) surface. TPD results after dosing cyclohexene on the Ni/Pt(1 1 1) and Cu/Pt(1 1 1) surfaces were compared with DFT calculations. The activities for each bimetallic surface were listed in Table 2. Consistent with the strong binding energy of cyclohexene, there was a substantial pathway for decomposition on NiPtPt(1 1 1). In contrast, the total activity on the PtNiPt(1 1 1) surface was much lower than either Pt(1 1 1) or NiPtPt(1 1 1), which can be attributed to the weaker binding of cyclohexene on this subsurface structure, as predicted by the DFT calculations. The interaction of cyclohexene with Cu/Pt(1 1 1) bimetallic surfaces was also examined. These observations were consistent with the DFT results for binding energy of cyclohexene on these three surfaces. The results for binding energy vs. the surface d-band center were depicted in Fig. 6 c. As seen for the other molecules, it was apparent that the binding became weaker as the surface d-band center moved away from the Fermi level. It was also apparent from Fig. 6 c that the binding on all the subsurface Pt3dPt(1 1 1) structures was very weak as compared to Pt(1 1 1). The effect of hydrocarbon chain length was studied by comparing the adsorption of the linear alkenes on the metal surfaces. The binding of 1-hexene and cyclohexene was compared in order to study the effect of cyclic structure and the results showed that the binding energy was lower for the cyclic structure on almost all the bimetallic surfaces. The integrated theoretical and experimental approach can be utilized to predict hydrogenation activity and inform the design of more efficient Pt-3d catalytic systems by correlating DFT calculations of surface d-band center and adsorbate binding energies for various C═C bond-containing molecules with experimental observations from techniques such as TPD measurements.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.使用DFT计算研究了三种线性烯烃（1-丁烯、1-戊烯和1-己烯）在单金属和双金属过渡金属表面上的吸附。将这些烯烃在不同表面上的结合能与基底的d带中心进行了比较。图1、图2和图3b分别显示了1-丁烯、1-戊烯和1-己烯的结合能与d带中心的关系。线性烯烃在次表面双金属（PtNiPt、PtCuPt、PtCoPt、PtFePt）上的结合能均匀低于Pt（1 1 1）表面。将TPD结果与DFT计算进行了比较，TPD结果是在Ni/Pt（1 1 1）和Cu/Pt（1 1 1）表面上施加环己烯后的结果。表2列出了每个双金属表面的活性。与环己烯的强结合能一致，NiPtPt（1 1 1）上存在大量的分解途径。相比之下，PtNiPt（1 1 1）表面的总活性远低于Pt（1 1 1）或NiPtPt（1 1 1），这可以归因于DFT计算预测的这种次表面结构上环己烯的较弱结合。还检查了环己烯与Cu/Pt（1 1 1）双金属表面的相互作用。这些观察结果与DFT关于这三个表面上环己烯结合能的结果一致。图6c描绘了结合能与表面d带中心的关系。对于其他分子而言，很明显，当表面d带中心远离费米能级移动时，结合会变弱。从图6c中也可以明显看出，所有次表面Pt3dPt（1 1 1）结构上的结合与Pt（1 1 1）相比非常弱。通过比较金属表面上线性烯烃的吸附，研究了碳氢链长度的影响。为了研究环状结构的影响，比较了1-己烯和环己烯的结合，结果表明，在几乎所有双金属表面上，环状结构的结合能较低。通过将DFT计算的表面d带中心和各种含C═C键分子的吸附物结合能与TPD测量等实验观察结果相关联，集成的理论和实验方法可用于预测氢化活性，并为设计更有效的Pt-3d催化系统提供信息。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
