I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Molecular adsorption on the surface of strongly correlated transition-metal oxides: A case study for CONiO100
A. Rohrbach, J. Hafner, and G. Kresse
Institut fu r Materialphysik and Center for Computational Material Science, Universita t Wien, Sensengasse 8/12, A-1090 Wien, Austria Received 15 April 2003; revised manuscript received 15 October 2003; published 25 February 2004!
It is well known that the physical properties of some transition-metal compounds mostly oxides! are strongly affected by intra-atomic correlations. Very recently, investigations of the adsorption of small mol- ecules such as CO on the surfaces of transition-metal oxides have led to rather surprising results: the weak adsorbate-substrate bonding and the asymmetric tilted! adsorption geometries contrast sharply the strong bonding and symmetric geometries characteristic for metallic surfaces. Calculations based on either Hartree- Fock or density-functional methods have failed to explain these observations. For bulk transition-metal oxides it has been demonstrated that the addition of a Hubbard-type on-site Coulomb repulsion U to the local-density Hamiltonian leads to an improved description of the electronic structure of these materials, but a consistent description of all physical properties proved to be elusive. In the present work, we present a comprehensive investigation of bulk NiO and of clean and CO-covered NiO100! surfaces. We demonstrate that adding the on-site Coulomb repulsion to the spin-polarized gradient-corrected density-functional Hamiltonian leads to a consistently improved description of a wide range of cohesive, electronic, and magnetic properties of NiO bulk and surface! and a very accurate description of the adsorption properties of CO. The effects of the strong electronic correlations in the substrate on the adsorbate-substrate bonding are discussed in detail.
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.69.075413
PACS numbers!: 68.43.Bc, 68.47.Gh, 71.27.1a, 73.20.At
I. INTRODUCTION
The surfaces of metal oxides, and in particular transition- metal oxides, play an extremely important role in heteroge- neous catalysis, either as active catalysts or as support for nanostructured metallic catalysts.13 The adsorption and re- actions of molecules on metallic surfaces have been studied extensively by both experimental and theoretical techniques.
Due to the progress realized in computational density- functional theory DFT!, excellent agreement between theory and experiment has been achieved for the structural param- eters characterizing the adsorbate-substrate complex: usually adsorbate-substrate bond lengths can be calculated within a few hundreds of an angstrom, and vibrational frequencies with a maximum error of 3 pct. Energy barriers of surface reactions can be predicted with an accuracy sufficient for a quantitative analysis of reaction rates.4 On the other hand, despite the considerable fundamental and industrial interest, our knowledge of transition-metal ox- ide TMO! surfaces is much more limited. Experimental data, especially for molecular adsorbates on transition-metal oxides, are rather scarce. This is due to both the difficulties in preparing well-characterized single-crystal surfaces and to the fact that the application of electron emitting or adsorbing spectroscopic techniques to insulating surfaces is difficult due to charging. In theoretical studies, standard density- functional techniques often fail in predicting even the most fundamental properties of bulk transition-metal oxides such as the presence or absence of a gap at the Fermi level; e.g.,local-spin-density calculations predict NiO to be either me- tallic or a semiconductor with a very narrow gap, whereas in experiment59 it is found to be an antiferromagnetic insulator with a gap ranging between 4.0 eV and 4.3 eV. Similar dis- crepancies between theory and experiment have been en- countered for many TMOs. Under these circumstances, only a very few attempts have been made to study molecular re- actions on TMO surfaces.
The failure of density-functional theory is due to the fact that the electronic structure of many TMOs is dominated by the strong on-site Coulomb repulsion strong correlation! be- tween the d electrons. A number of attempts have been made to overcome the limitations of the local-spin-density- approximation LSDA! for TMOs. Again NiO may serve as a very illustrative example. For NiO these beyond-LSDA investigations include the GW treatments of Aryasetiawan and Gunnarsson10 and of Massidda et al.,11 the self- interaction corrections SIC! to the LSDA of Svane and Gunnarsson12 and of Szotek et al.,13 the three-particle cor- rection to the LSDA proposed by Calandra and Manghi,14 the LSDA1U method developed by Anisimov et al.,15 reformu- lated by Liechtenstein et al.16 and applied to NiO by Du- darev et al.,17 and a Hartree-Fock study by Towler et al.18 Very recently, Bredow and Gerson19 have applied unre- stricted Hartree-Fock, gradient-corrected DFT, and hybrid techniques to investigate the bulk properties of NiO. The results of these studies may be summarized as follows again these conclusions concern not only NiO, but a wide class of strongly correlated TMOs!: Hartree-Fock HF! calculations grossly overestimate the width of the gap and underestimate the cohesive energies. Adding electronic correlation effects in the form of the functional of Lee, Yang, and Parr20 HF- LYP! improves the prediction of the cohesive energy with- out, however, correcting the band gap. Adding generalized gradient corrections to the LSDA leads to a reasonable cohe- sive energy and lattice constant, but produces only a minimal gap of 0.4 eV. This can be corrected either by adding many- body terms GW or SIC!, by using a hybrid functional mix- ing exact exchange with DFT B3LYP!,21 or by adding a Hubbard term describing the strong on-site Coulomb repul-
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
0163-1829/2004/697!/07541313!/$22.50 2004 The American Physical Society 69 075413-1 sion U to the LSDA Hamiltonian (DFT1U). All three meth- ods lead to the opening of a gap ranging between 2.6 eV SIC!, 3.0 eV (LSDA1U, depending on the strength of the on-site potential U), and 4.2 eV B3LYP!. Qualitatively,there is a general agreement that the top of the valence band is of mixed Ni-d and O-p character, whereas the bottom of the conduction band is Ni-d-like. Hence while the gap is caused by the Ni-d correlation, it is neither of a pure Mott- Hubbard d-d nor of a pure charge-transfer O-pNi-d) type.
However, even within the post-DFT approaches differences in quantitative predictions for band gap, exchange splitting,and other physical properties persist.1013,17,19 The electronic structure of TMO surfaces has been stud- ied experimentally using x-ray photoemission spectroscopy XPS!, electron-energy-loss spectroscopy EELS!, and scan- ning tunneling microscopy STM!. For NiO100! surfaces,extensive EELS work of Gorschlu ter and Merz22 yields in- formation on surface d-shell excitation. Atomically resolved STM images of the NiO100! surfaces23 show the surprising result of a contrast reversal when the applied bias voltage is reversed. Out of the many techniques that have been used to study bulk NiO, only the LSDA1U approach has been ap- plied to extended TMO surfaces. Calculations by Dudarev et al.24 found two types of surface states on NiO100!, a filled state consisting primarily of pz orbitals on the oxygen atoms and an empty surface state originating from Ni- d3z22r2 orbitals. These surface states explain the observed contrast reversal and suggest that at the surface the charge- transfer character of the gap might be more pronounced than in the bulk.
Experimental determinations of the structural properties of molecular adsorbates on TMO surfaces have been per- formed for the model systems CO, NO, and NH3 adsorbed on a NiO100! surface.2527 The comparison of the measured bond lengths and adsorption energies of the same species on a metallic Ni surface demonstrated that the adsorption on the surface of the TMO is much weaker than on a metallic sur- face. In addition, all three adsorbed molecules were found in a tilted configuration instead of in a strictly vertical position like on most metal surfaces. The tilt angle is relatively mod- est for CO (1266) and NH3 (766), but as large as 45 for NO. Quantum-chemical ab initio calculations for small NiO clusters on the Hartree-Fock level2830 produced signifi- cantly larger bond lengths and even lower adsorption ener- gies with respect to experiment and failed to reproduce the observed tilting of the adsorbates. This result was interpreted as a significant failure of current theoretical methods.26,27 Very recently, Di Valentin et al.31 and Bredow32 have per- formed cluster calculations on the adsorption of NO Ref. 31! and CO Ref. 32! on NiO100! using Hartree-Fock,density-functional, and hybrid methods. Both groups of au- thors come to somewhat different conclusions. Di Valentin et al. argue that although bonding of NO to NiO cannot be described by single-determinant approaches and conse- quently by DFT!, spin-polarized DFT calculations with hy- brid functionals lead to reasonable adsorption geometries in- cluding the tilt of the adsorbed molecule!. However, a strong dependence on the exchange-correlation functional is noted for the adsorption strength from strongly bound to unbound! and the spin properties, and this is attributed to different descriptions of the Coulomb repulsion within the 3d shell.
Bredow reports a good agreement for the Ni-CO bond length a possible tilting of the molecule was not considered! with the B3LYP functional, but find the molecule to be almost unbound (Ead50.02 eV). Surprisingly, in spite of the very weak adsorbate-substrate interaction, adsorption leads to a large down-shift of the CO stretching frequency which has not been observed experimentally. Hence many questions re- main open.
The aim of the present work is twofold. i! We have implemented the DFT1U method in its ro- tationally invariant form proposed by Liechtenstein et al.16 in a full-potential electronic structure code @the Vienna ab initio simulation package3337 VASP!#. In this form the DFT1U Hamiltonian is based on the full all-electron orbit- als and densities. This should be considered as a step forward compared to the implementation in codes using muffin-tin orbitals and the atomic-sphere approximation. ii! The DFT1U approach implemented in VASP has been used to investigate the physical properties of bulk NiO and of clean NiO100! surfaces, and to perform a detailed inves- tigation of the adsorption of CO molecules on this surface.
The experimentally well-characterized CO/NiO100! system has been used as a test case for exploring the ability of the DFT1U approach to study molecular adsorption on TMO surfaces. We demonstrate that a semilocal spin-polarized generalized gradient approximation SGGA! to the LSDA functional, together with the on-site Coulomb repulsion U resulting in a SGGA1U approach! leads to an improved and consistent description of the cohesive, structural, me- chanical, electronic, and magnetic properties of bulk NiO and NiO surfaces. Even more importantly, we demonstrate that the SGGA1U approach allows us to describe the ad- sorption energy and geometry of CO on NiO100! in almost perfect agreement with experiment. Our paper is organized as follows: In Sec. II we recapitulate the foundations of the DFT1U approach and its implementation in VASP within the framework of the projector-augmented wave
PAW!
method.38,37,39 Sections III and IV describe the results for bulk NiO and a clean NiO100! surface, demonstrating that a SGGA1U approach leads to an accurate and consistent de- scription of bulk and surface properties. Section V presents a detailed study of the adsorption properties of CO on NiO100! in the LSDA, SGGA, LSDA1U, and SGGA1U approximations, and we conclude in Sec. VI.
II. THEORETICAL METHODS
A. DFTU method
Transition-metal compounds such as NiO experience a strong on-site Coulomb-repulsion amongst Ni-3d electrons due to the narrow d-band-width, which is not correctly de- scribed in a spin-polarized DFT treatment. This error can be corrected with the DFT1U method, which is a combination of the DFT in either the LSDA or SGGA and a Hubbard Hamiltonian for the Coulomb repulsion and exchange inter- action. For the present calculations we use a simple DFT
A. ROHRBACH, J. HAFNER, AND G. KRESSE
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-2 1U version, proposed by Dudarev et al. in Ref. 17. It is based on a model Hamiltonian with the form17
H
5
U
2 ( m,m8,s n m,sn m8,2s1
U2J!
2 ( mm8,s n m,sn m8,s ,1! where n ms is the operator yielding the number of electrons occupying an orbital with magnetic quantum number m and spin s at a particular site.The Coulomb repulsion is characterized by a spherically averaged Hubbard parameter U describing the energy in- crease for placing an extra electron on a particular site, U 5E(dn11)1E(dn21)22E(dn), and a parameter J repre- senting the screened exchange energy. While U depends on the spatial extension of the wave functions and on screening, J is an approximation to the Stoner exchange parameter and almost constant ;1 eV. The Mott-Hubbard Hamiltonian in- cludes energy contributions already accounted for by the DFT functional. To correct for this double counting, Eq. 1! is estimated in the limit of integer occupancies and sub- tracted from the DFT energy to obtain the spin-polarized DFT1U energy functional.24,17 A simple functional is ob- tained after some straightforward algebra:17
EDFT1U5EDFT1
U2J
2 ( ms nms2nms 2 !. 2!This energy functional is yet not invariant with respect to a unitary transformation of the orbitals. A formulation given by Liechtenstein et al.16 replaces the number operator by the on-site density matrix rij s of the d electrons to obtain a rota- tionally invariant energy functional. In the present case this yields the functional17
EDFT1U5EDFT1
U2J
2 ( s Tr@rs2rsrs#. 3!The interpretation of this DFT1U functional is particularly simple. In the limit of an idempotent on-site occupancy ma- trix rs,rs25rs,the DFT1U functional yields exactly the same energy as the DFT functional EDFT1U5EDFT . The second term in Eq. 3! enforces this idempotency. If U.J, the term is positive defi- nite, since the eigenvalues ni of the on-site occupancy matrix can vary only between 0 and 1:rs2rsrs5( i ni s2ni s2.0,where the sum on the right-hand side is over all eigenvalues ni of the on-site occupancy matrix rs. Hence the second term in Eq. 3! can be interpreted as a positive-definite pen- alty function driving the on-site occupancy matrices towards idempotency. The DFT1U energy obtained in this manner is always larger than the DFT energy. The strength of the penalty function is parametrized by a single parameter U
2J. A larger U2J forces a stricter observance of the on-site
idempotency. This is achieved by lowering the one-electron potential locally for a particular metal d orbital and in turn modifying the hybridization with the ligand atoms. The one- electron potential is given by the functional derivative of the total energy with respect to the electron density, i.e., in a matrix representation, Vij s5 dEDFT1U drij s 5 dEDFT drij s 1U2J!F 1 2 dij2rij sG. 4!
It is recognized that filled d orbitals which are localized on one particular site are moved to lower energies, by 2(U 2J)1/2, whereas empty d orbitals are raised to higher ener- gies by (U2J)1/2.
B. Implementation within the projector-augmented wave
method The DFT1U is implemented in the PAW method as de- scribed by Bengone et al.39 In the PAW method, the all- electron AE! wave function Cn is related to the pseudo- wave-function C n through a linear transformation,38,37 uCn&5uC n&1( i ufi&2uf i&)p iuC n&. 5!
The index i is a shorthand for the atomic site R, the an- gular momentum numbers L5l,m and an additional index n referring to the reference energy enl of the partial waves fi .
The all-electron partial waves fi are solutions of the Schro - dinger equation for a spherical symmetric reference atom,and the pseudo-partial-waves f i are equivalent to the AE partial waves outside a core radius rc and match continu- ously onto f i inside the core radius. The projector functions p i are dual to the partial waves:p iuf j&5dij .
Starting from Eq. 5! it is possible to show that the AE charge density is given by a sum of three terms in the PAW method for details we refer to Refs. 38 and 37!:nr!5n r!1n1r!2n 1r!. 6!
Here, n is the soft pseudo-charge-density related directly to the pseudo-wave-functions C n . The on-site charge densities n1(r) and n 1(r) are only defined inside spheres with radius rc centered around each atom PAW spheres!. For the densi- ties n1(r) and n 1(r) the following defining equations are obtained:n1r!5( (i,j) rij PAWfiur&ruf j& 7! and n 1r!5( (i,j) rij PAWf iur&ruf j&. 8!MOLECULAR ADSORPTION ON THE SURFACE OF . . .
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-3 The matrix rij PAW describes the occupancies of each augmen- tation channel (i,j), and is calculated by multiplication of the pseudo-density-operator with the projector functions from the left and right:rij
PAW5(
n f np juC n&C nup i&. 9!
For a complete set of partial waves, the density n1(r) is exactly equivalent to the exact all electron charge density within the PAW sphere:nr!5n1r!,which is the crucial relation on which the present implemen- tation of the DFT1U method rests.
To derive the PAW1U method, one needs to define the orbital density matrix rmm8 entering Eq. 3!. The natural definition is based on the AE charge density inside the PAW augmentation spheres, n1(r), which can be written more ex- plicitly as n1r!5 ( (lmn),(l8m8n8) r(lmn),(l8m8n8)
PAW
flmnur&rufl8m8n8&.
With the restriction to l and l852, one can therefore relate the on-site density matrix rmm8 to the PAW on-site occu- pancy matrix r(lmn),(lm8n8)
PAW
through rmm85( nn8 r(lmn),(lm8n8)
PAW
flmnufl8m8n8&.
This establishes the crucial link between the PAW and the DFT1U method. For further details the reader is referred to Ref. 39. At this point we only add a few remarks concerning the implementation of the DFT1U approach in the PAW method in relation to that in other band-structure codes. i! Within the PAW method the calculation of the density matrix is based on the extended AE orbitals, whereas, e.g.,within the LMTO-ASA atomic sphere approximation! method it is based on the muffin-tin orbitals defined within overlapping atomic spheres producing only pseudo electron densities. ii! The PAW approach is a frozen-core method. A relax- ation of the core could influence the results, although we expect this to be less important for NiO than for materials with semicore states not too far below the bottom of the valence band.
C. Further computational details
In this work, the calculations were performed with
VASP.3337VASP is a first-principles plane-wave code, treating
exchange and correlation in the DFT scheme. The projector- augmented wave PAW! method38 in the implementation of Kresse and Joubert37 is used to describe the electron-ion in- teraction. At the level of the LSDA, the exchange-correlation functional proposed by Perdew and Zunger40 based on the quantum Monte Carlo calculations of Ceperley and Alder41! is used. Generalized gradient corrections GGCs! are added in the form of the Perdew-Wang42 functional. For spin- polarized calculations, the spin interpolation of Vosko et al.43 was used. GGCs add, through the dependence of the func- tional on the gradient of the electron and spin densities, a semilocal element to the purely local LSDA functional. The influence of the GGCs on the results of the calculations of physical properties is by now well documented see, e.g., Moroni et al.44 and further references given therein!. i! They correct the overbinding tendency characteristic for the LSDA, leading to smaller cohesive energies and larger equilibrium lattice constants. ii! For magnetic systems, GGCs predict a slightly en- hanced exchange splitting and larger magnetic moments.
Generally, the magnetic state is stabilized relative to the non- magnetic statethe most striking example is Fe where only the SGGA predicts the correct ground state body-centered cubic and ferromagnetic!, whereas the LSDA predicts non- magnetic hexagonal Fe to be lower in energy.44 iii! For molecular adsorption at metallic surfaces, the LSDA predicts in many cases a qualitatively incorrect potential-energy surface, whereas the SGGA results in a cor- rect description of the adsorption/desorption dynamics.45,46 iv! The influence of the gradient corrections is largest for the light elements where the overbinding tendency of the LSDA is most severe. For very heavy elements, the GGCs eventually overcorrect the LSDA error. Part of the present study is also aimed at exploring the interplay of the GGCs to the LSDA Hamiltonian with the Hubbard term. This question has hardly received any attention so far.
The Kohn-Sham equations are solved via iterative matrix diagonalization based on the minimization of the norm of the residual vector to each eigenstate and optimized charge- and spin-mixing routines.4749 To sample the band structure, the Brillouin-zone integration is performed using Monkhorst- Pack grids.50 The unit cells are usually extended in one di- rection due to symmetry breaking in antiferromagnetic set- ups. k- point grids varying from 33331 to 63634 were used. The densities of states DOSs! were calculated using the linear tetrahedron method.5153 For the calculation of the total energy as a function of volume, a Gaussian-smearing approach with s50.2 eV was used. The plane-wave cutoff was fixed to 330 eV. The DFT1U version of Dudarev et al.17 described above was used for all calculations. Since the DFT1U functional depends only on the difference U 2J, J was kept fixed to 1 eV during all calculations. The U2J50 case represents the DFT limit.
III. BULK NICKEL OXIDE
Bulk nickel oxide is an antiferromagnetic insulator with an experimental band gap between 4.0 and 4.3 eV according to different experiments.58 It crystallizes in the rocksalt structure with a lattice constant of a54.17 Å. Below its Ne el temperature of TN5523 K, it assumes an antiferromag- netic type-II ordering @planes with collinear spins are parallel to the 111! plane# with local magnetic moments of (1.641.77)mB at saturation.
A. Influence of strong electronic correlations on physical
properties Calculations of the physical properties of bulk NiO were performed using the LSDA, SGGA, LSDA1U, and SGGA
A. ROHRBACH, J. HAFNER, AND G. KRESSE
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-4
1U. The results are compiled in Table I. We first note that
the LSDA yields a 9% too small lattice constant of 4.07 Å, a too large bulk modulus, a 20% too small magnetic moment,and no gap. The SGGA improves the results somewhat by correcting the overbinding characteristic for the LSDA we also note good agreement with the SGGA results of Bredow and Gerson19!. A small band gap of 0.5 eV opens, and the local magnetic moment increases to 1.28mB , both are too small compared to experiment. The lattice constant and the bulk modulus on the other hand agree reasonably well with experiment. There is definitely a need for further improve- ment by including correlation effects.
To determine the optimal value for the on-site Coulomb potential, U was varied between U50 and U59 eV. Figure 1 shows the dependence of the equilibrium lattice constant,the magnetic moment, and the band gap as calculated in the SGGA1U approach. The lattice parameter shows only a weak dependence on U, while the magnetic moment and the band gap increase monotonously with increasing U. For the magnetic-moment agreement with experiment is achieved at U;5 eV, while the measured band gap can be matched only at U>8 eV. The variation of all physical quantities with U in a LSDA1U approach is similar, but as disagreement be- tween theory and experiment is much larger in the LSDA than in the SGGA, a much larger value of U is required to fit the experimental values for the lattice constant agreement cannot be achieved for any acceptable value of U) and the scatter of the values required to fit different physical quanti- ties is also much larger. Within the SGGA1U, a value of
U2J55.3 eV leads to reasonable values for all considered
physical properties: magnetic moment and bulk modulus agree within experimental uncertainty, the lattice constant is ;0.5% too large, although the band gap is still underesti- mated by nearly 1 eV. To fit the band gap, a value of U >8 eV is required, such a large value, however, would lead to a bad overall description of the electronic spectrum. We also note reasonable agreement with the results based on the B3LYP hybrid functional.
In the present calculations, the lattice constant is hardly affected by the inclusion of the on-site Hubbard term, in contrast to previous studies using the LMTO-ASA method with similar DFT1U corrections done by Dudarev et al.17 The reason for this discrepancy is not quite clear, but could be due to the frozen-core approximation applied in the present work. As in other DFT1U calculations, the minority eg orbital is shifted to higher energies by the on-site Cou- lomb repulsion. This reduces the hybridization between the minority Ni-eg and O-p orbitals, decreasing the covalent bonding between O-p and eg states. This process should yield an increase in the volume. In our calculations, however,this seems to be counterbalanced by a contraction of the t2g orbitals which reduces the Pauli repulsion between d orbitals and O-p states.
B. Electronic structure
Figure 2 shows the spin-polarized local density of states on the Ni and O sites as calculated in the SGGA and in the TABLE I. Band gap De, lattice constant a, magnetic moment on Ni atoms, m, bulk modulus B, and cohesive energy E with respect to Ni and O2.
Experiment Theory Present work Dudarev et al.a Bredowb
LSDA1U
SGGA1U
SGGA
LSDA
LSDA1U
LSDA
SGGA
B3LYP
U56.3 eV
U56.3 eV
U56.3 eV
De (eV)
4.2,c 3.8d
3.1
3.2
0.5
0
3.0
0.6
0.4
4.2
a (Å)
4.17c
4.07
4.20
4.19
4.07
4.19
4.08
4.18
4.23
m (mB)
1.64,e 1.77f
1.64
1.72
1.28
1.13
1.33
1.68
B (GPa) 205c 236
202.5
210 252 182 230 E (eV)
5.89
25.03
25.84
26.75
aReference 17. bReference 19. cReference 5. dReference 3. eReference 7. fReference 6.
FIG. 1. SGGA1U predictions of lattice constant, magnetic mo-
ment, and band gap of bulk NiO plotted against U2J.
MOLECULAR ADSORPTION ON THE SURFACE OF . . .
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-5 SGGA1U with U56.3 eV). In the SGGA, the lower part of the valence band is dominated by O-2p states weakly hybridized with the Ni-3d states, the upper part of the va- lence band and the lowest conduction band are of almost pure Ni-3d character, the top of the valence has Ni-eg char- acter for the majority spins, and Ni-t2g character for the mi- nority spins. The lowest excited states are minority Ni-eg states. Hence the small gap that exists in the SGGA is of Mott-Hubbard-type. The SGGA band structure is quite simi- lar to the LSDA result of Bengone et al.,39 but in the SGGA we note a stronger overlap of the t2g and eg manifolds of the majority states due to a down-shift of the occupied eg states caused by the larger magnetic moment and exchange split- ting than in the LSDA. At increasing U, the exchange split- ting of the eg states is strongly increased, at U56.3 eV we find a value of about 9.5 eV, in good agreement with the GW calculations of Massida et al.11 who report a splitting of 9 eV. The LSDA1U calculations of Bengone et al.39 produce a smaller splitting of 8.6 eV at U55 eV, in accordance with the difference we have already noted between the LSDA and SGGA results. Compared to the O-2p states, the Ni-t2g states are shifted to larger binding energies, resulting in a strongly increased O-2pNi-3d hybridization. At the top of the va- lence band we now have states with predominantly O-2p character and a small admixture of Ni-t2g states for both majority and minority electrons; hence the band gap is a mixture of a charge transfer and a Mott-Hubbard d-d type.
At U56.3 eV, the calculated width of the gap is 3.1 eV in the LSDA1U and 3.2 eV in the SGGA1U approximation,in reasonable agreement with the GW gap of 3.5 eV. The SIC calculations of Szotek et al.13 and of Svane and Gunnarsson12 agree on a smaller gap of 2.5 eV, they also produce a magnetic moment of only 1.5mB . The mixed Ni- dO-p character of the top of the valence band is also in good agreement with the B3LYP calculations,19 although they result in a somewhat broader gap. Increasing the on-site Coulomb repulsion beyond U;6 eV leads to an exchange splitting significantly larger than that obtained in the GW calculations and enhances the O-p character of the top of the valence band. The mixed character of the top of the valence band is also confirmed by a comparison of the experimental XPS Ref. 54! and the O Ka x-ray emission spectra.55,56 The XPS spectrum is dominated by emission from Ni states and the O Ka XES spectrum by emission from O-2p states, both spectra show considerable intensity at the top of the valence band.
Detailed investigations of the dispersion of the occupied electronic eigenstates have been performed using angular- resolved ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy ARUPS!.25,57 Comparison of theory and experiment at an absolute energy scale is difficult because the experiments have been performed on samples in which the Fermi level was pinned at different energies in the gap. In previous at- tempts to compare theory and experiments,39,57 the alignment of the various sets of experimental data and of the theoretical bands has been arbitrarily chosen in order to make experi- ment and theory agree at the highest valence band at the G point. We consider this procedure as quite problematic as it misaligns the spectra with respect to the Fermi level. We proceed in a slightly different way. Figure 3 shows our SGGA and SGGA1U results for the bands along the G-X direction, compared with the ARUPS experiments of Shen et al.57 and Kuhlenbeck et al.25 For each data set, the top of the valence band was located at De/2 below the energy zero at the Fermi level, using the experimental and calculated value of the band gap De as appropriate for each case. The ARUPS data show essentially four significant features: the two almost dispersionless features at energies of ;22 eV and ;23.6 eV marked by triangles in Figs. 3a! and 3b! have been assigned, on the basis of the variation of the in- tensity with the energy of the incident photons, to the Ni-3d band. For these features we note a very good agreement with our SGGA1U calculations. As discussed by Shen et al., the details of the photoemission intensities also show indications for a splitting into several weakly dispersing bands, also in agreement with the calculations. The strongly dispersive fea- tures marked by circles in Figs. 3a! and 3b! have been assigned to oxygen bands. For the upper of these two bands we find again good agreement with the SGGA1U results.
The lower of these two bands shows strong dispersion in the center of the Brillouin zone and is rather flat towards the X point. In this region we note good agreement with the SGGA1U result, whereas the strongly dispersive part can- not be associated with a single continuous band. In both sets of experimental data, an additional feature not shown in the dispersion relations with a rather weak dispersion! is located at 29 eV binding energy. Its intensity increases strongly with increasing photon energy, which is consistent with its Ni-3d character. This feature agrees quite well with the lower edge of the Ni valence band that is pushed to lower energies by the on-site Coulomb interactions in the SGGA 1Uin contrast in a SGGA calculation the lower edge of the band is of oxygen character. The data of Kuhlenbeck et al. @see Fig. 3d!# agree quite well with those of Shen et al. Only the lowest Ni band has not been included in this study. Altogether we note a quite satisfying agreement of the SGGA1U results with experiment.
FIG. 2. Projected density of states of bulk Ni-3d and O-2p
states from GGA solid line! and GGA1U, U56.3 eV dashed line!. Energies are given relative to the top of the valence band.
A. ROHRBACH, J. HAFNER, AND G. KRESSE
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-6
IV. CLEAN 100 SURFACE
Cleavage of NiO along the 100! plane yields a nonpolar and rather stable surface. The magnetic ordering in the sur- face plane is antiferromagnetic with parallel spins aligned in nearest-neighbor rows.59 Table II compares our present re- sults with other theoretical calculations and experiment. The LSDA calculations predict an outward relaxation of the top layer,contrasting the inward relaxation found in the experiment,58 and a quite substantial buckling of 0.1 Å the Ni atoms move outwards compared to the O atoms! which has not been observed. The SGGA, LSDA1U, and SGGA 1U calculations on the other hand predict a small (;1%) inward relaxation of the top layer, an even weaker outward relaxation of the subsurface layer, and almost no buckling.
The magnetic moment of the Ni surface atoms is almost unaffected by this modest structural relaxation, but the gap is slightly narrowed compared to the bulk. A previous investi- gation of the NiO surface using LSDA by Dudarev et al.24 has been performed on a bulk-terminated surface geometry,without allowing any relaxation. In accordance to our results,no change in the magnetic moment and a slight band narrow- ing compared to the bulk have been reported.
The layer-resolved density of states as calculated using SGGA and SGGA1U is shown in Fig. 4.
We first note that the empty minority eg band splits into two well-separated subbands at the surface. As discussed in Ref. 24, the peak at the conduction band edge originates from the dz2 states which, at the surface, experience only the field originating from the oxygen atoms below the Ni surface atom, whereas the crystal field felt by the dx22y2 orbital is hardly modified compared to the bulk. This leads to a sizable reduction of the band gap at the surface from 0.5 eV to 0.1 eV and 3.2 to 2.9 eV in SGGA and SGGA1U respectively.
Figure 5 shows the dispersion relations of the electronic eigenstates of our slab model, together with the bulk disper- sion relations projected onto the surface Brillouin zone. It is evident that the Ni-eg surface states are split from the lower edge of the conduction band, whereas at the top of the va- lence band, all bands merge with the continuum of bulk states. In a scanning tunneling microscopy with positive sample bias, states at the lower conduction-band edge are imaged; the strong localization of the Ni-eg surface states leads to a rather sharp image contrast.23,59 Experiments with a negative sample bias on the other hand image states at the top of the valence band. The dominant O-p character of these states explains the contrast reversal observed in the STM experiments as the bias is reversed, the overlap of these states with the bulk bands leads to a significantly more dif- fuse STM image.
V. CO ADSORPTION ON NiO100
Experimentally26,27 it is known that CO adsorbs exother- mally on NiO100! with an adsorption energy of 0.3 eV and an adsorption bond length Ni-C of 2.07 Å. The C-O bond length remains 1.15 Å, close to the gas-phase bond length.
Both the Ni-C (;763) and the C-O (1266) bonds are tilted with respect to the surface normal. Compared to CO adsorbed on the metallic Ni111! surface, which has an ad- sorption energy of ;1.2 eV, the adsorption on NiO100! is much weaker.
Former calculations of Pacchioni et al.28 and Po hlchen and Staemmler29 for this system performed in the Hartree- Fock approximation and using small clusters to represent the NiO surface show a substantial overestimation of the Ni-C bond length while underestimating the adsorption energy only slightly see Table III!. The tilts are not reproduced.
FIG. 3. Dispersion relations of electronic eigenstates in NiO, as
calculated using the SGGA broken lines! and the SGGA1U full lines! and compared to experiment. The triangles, circles, and crosses represent peaks in the photoemission intensities. The figures show data from Shen et al. Ref. 57!, taken at incident angles of a! 90 and b! 70 of the photons. For each set of data, the energy scale has been adjusted such as to achieve reasonable agreement for the highest valence band cf. text!.
MOLECULAR ADSORPTION ON THE SURFACE OF . . .
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-7 Very recently Bredow32 used cluster-based Hartree-Fock,density-functional, and hybrid methods to investigate the ad- sorption of CO on NiO100!. The rather wide scatter in the Hartree-Fock results illustrate the difficulties to achieve con- vergence with respect to cluster size and basis set. The best agreement for the Ni-C bond length is achieved using the B3LYP hybrid functional, but it also gives an almost zero adsorption energy and a too large negative shift of the C-O stretching frequency. The possibility of a tilted adsorption geometry was evidently not considered, but we note that Di Valentin et al.31 found a stable tilted geometry for NO on NiO100! using B3LYP. All other methods lead to a substan- tial disagreement for the adsorption length.
A. Adsorption geometry and energy
We have examined the adsorption of CO on NiO100! using the LSDA, SGGA, LSDA1U, and SGGA1U meth- ods, with U56.3 eV, as optimized for bulk NiO. The two topmost layers and the CO molecule were allowed to relax.
The coverage was varied between 1 ML, 0.5 ML, and 0.25 ML where ML stands for monolayer! by using c(131),c(A23A2) and c(232) supercells, respectively see Fig.
TABLE II. NiO surface properties: band gap De, surface energy g, magnetic moment in the surface layer,m, relaxation of the distance between the first and second (D12), and second and third layer (D23), and height difference of the Ni and O atoms in the first layer buckling b).
Experiment Theory Present work Dudarev et al. Ref. 24!
LSDA1U
SGGA1U
SGGA
LSDA
LSDA1U
U56.3 eV
U56.3 eV
U58 eV De (eV)
2.8
2.9
0.1
0
3.3 bulk 3.5!
g (meV/Å3) 41 49 53 71 m (mB)
1.62
1.71
1.21
1.07
1.72 bulk 1.74!
D12 %!
22a
21.3
21.04
21.6
11.4
D23 %!
0
10.8
10.50
10.7
21.4
b Å!
0.023
0.017
0.015
0.1
aReference 58.
FIG. 4. Projected density of states of Ni-3d states for nickel
ions of the surface, first subsurface, and second subsurface layer from a! SGGA and b! SGGA1U, U56.3 eV.
FIG. 5. Dispersion relations calculated for the slab model of
NiO full lines! and bulk density of states projected onto the surface Brillouin zone gray shading!. The electronic surface states, split from the conduction band, are clearly visible.
A. ROHRBACH, J. HAFNER, AND G. KRESSE
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-8 6!. Initially the CO molecule was kept parallel to the surface normal, but in a second step a tilt with respect the surface normal was considered. In a range of Ni-C-O angles from 0 to 30, starting points for relaxations were defined at inter- vals of 5 for tilts in both the @010# and the @001# directions.
Initially, the angles between the surface normal and the Ni-C and C-O bonds were assumed to be the same. For each of these initial configurations, the z @001#! and y @010#! coor- dinates of the O atom were fixed, so that the atom could only move in the @100# direction. The C atom was free to move in all directions so that the angles of the Ni-C and C-O bonds relative to the surface normal can be different and both the Ni-C and C-O bond lengths can be optimized. The variation of the adsorption energy as a function of the tilting angle of the C-O band is illustrated in Figs. 7 and 8, and adsorption energies, bond lengths, and tilting angles for the optimal ad- sorption geometry are summarized in Table III and compared with experiment and previous theoretical studies.
In both the LSDA and SGGA, any tilting of the molecule from a perpendicular position is energetically unfavorable. In the LSDA, the calculated Ni-C bond length is too short by
0.4 Å; the calculated adsorption energy is four times higher
than measured. This is characteristic for the overbinding ten- dency of the LSDA. Generalized gradient corrections lead only to a marginal improvement: a small increase in the ad- sorption distance by 0.05 Å which is still much too small! and a reduction of the adsorption energy by nearly 50% which is still too large!. For the Ni-C bond length, our SGGA results are rather close to the BLYP results of Bredow,32 but the PW functional or the plane-wave basis set leads to a much larger adsorption energy. Only if the on-site TABLE III. Overview of calculated adsorption properties of CO on NiO100!. The calculations were done with Q50.25, 0.5, and 1 ML CO coverages. LSDA, SGGA, and DFT1U were used. dNi2C dC2O fNi2C fC2O Adsorption energy eV!
Experimenta
2.07
1.15
763 1266
0.3
Theory HFb
2.49
0.25
HFc
2.86
0.08
HFd
2.92
1.105
0.00
HFLYPd
2.40
1.098
0.19
B3LYPd
2.10
1.134
0.02
BLYPd
1.87
1.161
0.23
Present workTheory
DFT
LSDA, Q50.5 ML
1.76
1.150
0 0
1.26
SGGA, Q50.25 ML
1.81
1.154
0 0
0.73
SGGA, Q50.5 ML
1.81
1.153
0 0
0.70
SGGA, Q51 ML
1.82
1.153
0 0
0.68
DFT1U (U56.3 eV)
LSDA1U, Q50.25 ML
1.93
1.144
4.5
11.3
0.80
LSDA1U, Q50.5 ML
1.94
1.145
6.6
18.1
0.79
LSDA1U, Q51 ML
1.95
1.146
7.0
16.2
0.77
SGGA1U, Q50.25 ML
2.03
1.143
5.9
15.1
0.33
SGGA1U, Q50.5 ML
2.04
1.145
7.3
21.0
0.26
SGGA1U, Q51 ML
2.05
1.146
5.6
14.7
0.19
aHoeft et al., Refs. 26 and 27. bPacchioni et al., Ref. 28, cluster calculations, CO bond length fixed. cPo hlchen and Staemmler, Ref. 29, cluster calculations, CO bond length fixed. dBredow, Ref. 32, cluster calculations, coverage not defined.
FIG. 6. The clean NiO100! surface upper left!, the (131)
surface cell (QCO51 ML), the A23A2 (QCO50.5 ML) lower left!, and the 232 (Q50.25 ML) supercells lower right!. The preferred tilt direction is indicated by the arrow lower left panel!.
MOLECULAR ADSORPTION ON THE SURFACE OF . . .
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-9 Coulomb repulsion is added to the DFT functional, tilting was found to be energetically stable in both @010# and @001# directions, with a tilt towards the oxygen atom @001# direc- tion! in the surface plane being energetically less stable than a tilt towards the nickel atom @010# direction!. The tilting is strongest at a coverage of 0.5 ML, at larger coverage lateral interactions reduce the tilting. At the lower coverage of 0.25 ML, the increasing adsorbate-substrate bonding also reduces the tendency to tilt away from the surface normal. In the LSDA1U, the Ni-C bond length is still too small by about
0.24 Å and the adsorption energy is largely overestimated. In
agreement with our results on bulk NiO and on the clean surface, the best results are achieved using the SGGA1U approach: Ni-C, C-O bond lengths, tilting angles, and ad- sorption energies agree almost perfectly with experiment. As the results compiled in Table III demonstrate, the calculated Ni-C bond length agrees with experiment within 0.02 Å, the tilt angles also agree within the experimental uncertainty, and even the adsorption energies are accurate to within 0.05 eV.
B. Bonding mechanism
The tilted adsorption geometry for a weakly adsorbed lin- ear molecule such as CO is a rather surprising result. On the surfaces of transition metals, CO is usually adsorbed in an upright position for metals with a nearly full d band. On the surfaces of metals with a half or less than half-filled d band, CO is dissociated. Only on the relatively open a-Fe100! surface, CO is molecularly adsorbed in a tilted configuration,forming an angle of 45610 with respect to the surface normal6062 and dissociates upon heating. In contrast, both on the close-packed 110! surface of a-Fe and on the sur- faces of thin films of g-Fe, CO is adsorbed in an upright position63 and desorbs in molecular form. Hence in these cases, the tilted configuration appears as a precursor to dis- sociation, and adsorbate-substrate interactions are mediated by strong covalent bonds. It has been shown64 that the tilting observed on the a-Fe100! surface is induced by a strong hybridization between O-p orbitals extending parallel to the surface and t2g orbitals of the substrate atoms. However, it cannot be expected that these results, which apply to a strong-bonding situation, can be transferred straightfor- wardly to the weakly bonded CO on NiO.
Quite generally, the bonding of a CO molecule to a transition-metal atom of the substrate can be attributed to the hybridization of the highest occupied molecular orbital HOMO! and the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital LUMO! of CO with d orbitals in the appropriate energy range. For CO on NiO100! this leads to the following scenario:28 i! The empty Ni-dz2 build hybrid orbitals with the fully occupied 5s HOMO of CO donation!, ii! the occupied Ni-dzx and Ni-dzy orbitals build hybrid orbitals with the unoccupied 2p* LUMO of CO back-donation!.
The former process contributes to the formation of the adsorbate-substrate bond and the latter to the reduction of the intramolecular bond strength. The adsorption properties of CO on NiO100! are therefore dependent on the degree of hybridization of these orbitals, which depends on their rela- tive position.
The source of failure of the LSDA and SGGA calcula- tions, where the Ni-C bond length is substantially underesti- mated and the adsorption energy is overestimated, is the in- correct description of the Ni-d states, leading to a too strong hybridization between the 2p* LUMO of CO and the filled Ni-dzx and Ni-dzy states and to a reduction of the intramo- lecular bond strength. In DFT1U calculations the increased exchange splitting pushes the Ni-t2g states to much lower energies and reduces strongly the 2p*-(dzx1dzy) hybridiza- tion and hence the adsorption strength.
FIG. 7. Initial configuration for a relaxation of the tilted CO
molecule on top of the Ni adatom at one of the predefined tilting angles. The x and y coordinates of the O molecule are kept fixed during a calculation while the z coordinate is free. The C molecule is free to move. The movements are very small, thus Dg/g!1.
FIG. 8. Variation of the adsorption energy of CO on NiO100!
as a function of the tilting angle of the adsorbed molecule, as cal- culated at different coverages using a! the SGGA and b! the
SGGA1U. For a coverage of 0.5 ML, the possibilities of a tilting
towards a neighboring Ni atom i.e., in the @011# direction! or to- wards a neighboring O atom @001# direction! have been explored.
A. ROHRBACH, J. HAFNER, AND G. KRESSE
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-10 These effects are very clearly reflected in the local partial densities of states. Figures 9 and 10 compare the results for the spin-polarized Ni-t2g , -dz2, and-dx22y2 states and for the 2p!, 5s, and 1p molecular orbitals of CO as obtained in the SGGA, without and with the on-site Coulomb repulsions.
In the SGGA, the significant features are the broadening and bonding/antibonding splitting of the Ni-dz2 and CO 5s DOSs as well as the bonding/antibonding splitting in the CO 2p! DOS, leading to an incipient population of these anti- bonding molecular orbitals. In the SGGA1U, the dz2-5s interaction is reduced to the majority states and the 2p! states remain completely empty. This means that mechanism i! dominates the adsorbate-substrate bond.
While the analysis of the projected DOS helps us to un- derstand the reduction of the adsorption strength resulting from the electronic correlation effects, the tilting of the mol- ecule is a more subtle effect. DFT LSDA or SGGA!1U predicts a substantial tilt of both Ni-C and C-O bonds. In the upright configurations, only the 5s-dz2 and 2p*-(dzx 1dzy) interactions are nonzero by symmetry. The former (pds)-type coupling is relatively insensitive against a tilting of the molecule, while the latter (pdp)-type coupling strongly prefers the upright configuration. If the (pdp) in- teraction is strong as in LSDA and SGGA!, the upright high-symmetry configuration is the stable one. In the SGGA1U calculations, this type of interaction is strongly reduced by the increased exchange splitting, as evidenced by the lack of a 2p* peak at the energy of the t2g states. Hence,the bonding between the substrate and the molecule is no longer directional, and the CO molecule can tilt without a significant loss of covalent binding energy. Furthermore, in a symmetry-broken tilted configuration, the dz2 states can in- teract with both p orbitals of the CO molecule initially sym- metry forbidden!. The corresponding changes in the local partial densities of states are found to be rather minute. To underline the previous argument we show in Fig. 11 charge- density flow difference electron density! diagrams for CO in an upright and a tilted configuration as calculated in SGGA
1U. In both figures negative charge flow dark color! is
located at the Ni-dzx /Ni-dzy and the CO-5s orbitals, while positive charge flow light gray color! is located at the Ni-dz2 and the CO-2p* orbitals, indicating the two bonding mecha-
FIG. 9. SGGA calculations for CO adsorbed on NiO coverage
0.5 ML!, upright adsorption geometry: The upper panel shows Ni-
3d orbitals for the clean site dashed line! and adatom site solid line!. The lower panel shows C-2p orbitals for a CO molecule in a Ni-C distance of 3 Å dashed line! and an adsorbed CO molecule solid line!.
FIG. 10. SGGA1U calculations for CO adsorbed on NiO cov-
erage 0.5 ML!, upright adsorption geometry. The upper panel shows Ni-3d orbitals for clean site dashed line! and adatom site solid line!. The lower panel shows C-2p orbitals for a CO molecule in a Ni-C distance of 3 Å solid line! and an adsorbed CO molecule dashed line!.
MOLECULAR ADSORPTION ON THE SURFACE OF . . .
PHYSICAL REVIEW B 69, 075413 2004!
075413-11 nisms discussed above. In the tilted configuration, an addi- tional lobe with negative charge flow appears at the C atom pointing towards the tilting direction, and a charge accumu- lation is visible at the opposite side of the C atom indicated by an arrow in Fig. 11. These features are caused by the rehybridization of the 1p and 2p* orbitals with the dz2 states, resulting in a small net binding. Certainly the strength of the binding can be determined only on the basis of a full ab initio calculation, and it is difficult to deduce it from a simplified analysis on the basis of the density of states or charge flow.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
We have presented a comprehensive investigation of the physical properties of bulk NiO, of clean and CO-covered NiO100! surfaces, both using density-functional theory and using the DFT1U approach in which a Hubbard term de- scribing the strong on-site Coulomb interactions is added to the density-functional Hamiltonian. In the past repeated at- tempts have been made to describe the properties of the strongly correlated transition-metal oxides within the DFT framework, but it remained unclear whether a comprehensive description of all physical properties could be achieved with a single value of the on-site Coulomb potential. It should also be emphasized that various DFT variants may be found in the literature, differing in the way in which the energy contributions which are included in both the Hubbard term and in the DFT Hamiltonian are subtracted out. In our cal- culations we have adopted the rotationally invariant formu- lation of the DFT1U Hamiltonian introduced by Liechten- stein et al.16 and Dudarev et al.17 and implemented it in the projector-augmented-wave method, which is one of the most accurate full-potential all-electron electronic structure meth- ods. We have also investigated both local LSDA! and gradient-corrected SGGA! exchange-correlation functionals.
The comparison of the LSDA1U and SGGA1U for bulk NiO leads to the first important result: while in the LSDA1U approach it turns out to be difficult to achieve good agreement for all physical propertiesto fit the equi- librium volume and bulk modulus to experiment would re- quire a substantially larger value of the on-site potential than required to fit the band gap or the magnetic moments consistent description with a physically reasonable value of
U56.3 eV is achieved in the SGGA1U, which also im-
proves the calculated binding energy. A SGGA1U calcula- tion also leads to a good description of the clean NiO sur- face. The result that the Hubbard on-site term should be used best in conjunction with a gradient-corrected DFT functional confirms very recent results on the less strongly correlated transition-metal sulfides. For bulk NiO we find that the SGGA1U description leads to similar results as calculations based on hybrid functionals mixing exact exchange to the SGGA functional.19 We have shown that the strong on-site correlations lead to a qualitative change in the adsorption behavior of CO on NiO. While a pure DFT LSDA or SGGA! approach predicts a strong-binding situation and an upright adsorption geom- etry, the SGGA calculation leads to an adsorption geometry and energy in perfect agreement with experiment. This is achieved with the same value of the on-site Coulomb poten- tial that has been used in the bulk calculations. The weak binding and the tilting of the molecule away from the surface normal are shown to result from the increased exchange splitting of the Ni-d states, which largely suppresses the 2p*-(dzx1dzy) interaction and enables a 1p-dz2 hybridiza- tion favoring the tilted geometry.
Whereas for bulk NiO the use of a hybrid B3LYP func- tional provides a physically reasonable interpolation between the HF approaches which overestimate gap and exchange splitting! and DFT leading to metallic behavior!, the situa- tion is different for CO adsorption: in this case B3LYP pre- dicts a reasonable Ni-C bond, but an almost unbound CO molecule.
In summary, using CO on NiO surfaces as a testing ground, we have demonstrated that a DFT1U approach could provide not only a reasonable strategy for calculating not only the bulk properties of strongly correlated transition- metal compounds, but in addition lead to significant ad- vances in the description of molecular adsorption on the sur- faces of these important materials as well. Preliminary results on other TMOs and their surfaces (Fe2O3 , Cr2O3,etc.!6567 suggest that these conclusions drawn here for a test system have more general validity.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation in nickel oxide-based catalysts influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions (such as ethylbenzene to styrene and ethane to ethylene), and what are the key challenges in theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these catalytic systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 