<quotes>
In the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) reaction over V2O3, VO2, and V2O5 with O2 and N2O, the catalytic performance is determined by the applied oxidizing agent (O2 and N2O), but not by the initial composition of individual vanadium oxides. At similar degrees of propane conversion, the steady-state composition depends on the oxidizing agent. For an oxygen (C3H8/O2 = 2) containing mixture, vanadium species are stabilized in penta- and tetravalent oxidation states, with the former being the main one. In the presence of N2O, the oxidation state of vanadium is lower under controlled degrees of propane and oxidant conversion. This difference in the oxidation state of vanadium with O2 and N2O is related to the lower ability of N2O for reoxidation of reduced VOx species as compared to O2.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The catalytic performance in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODP) reaction over vanadium oxides is influenced by the type of oxidizing agent used rather than the initial composition of the vanadium oxides. At comparable levels of propane conversion, the steady-state catalyst composition varies depending on whether oxygen (O2) or nitrogen dioxide (N2O) is used as the oxidizing agent. When oxygen is the oxidizing agent, vanadium species tend to stabilize in pentavalent and tetravalent oxidation states, with pentavalent being predominant. In contrast, when N2O is used, the vanadium oxidation state is lower, especially under conditions of controlled propane and oxidant conversion. This difference in vanadium oxidation state between O2 and N2O is attributed to N2O's lesser capability to reoxidize reduced vanadium oxide species compared to O2.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
在使用V2O3、VO2和V2O5作为氧化剂与O2和N2O进行丙烷氧化脱氢（ODP）反应时，催化剂性能由所使用的氧化剂类型决定，而不是单质钒氧化物的初始组成。在相似的丙烷转化率下，稳态催化剂组成取决于所用氧化剂。当氧气作为氧化剂时，钒物种倾向于稳定在五价和四价氧化状态，其中五价是主要的。相比之下，当使用N2O时，在可控的丙烷和氧化剂转化率条件下，钒的氧化状态较低。这种氧钒状态之间的差异归因于N2O在还原钒氧化物物种方面的还原能力较弱，与O2相比。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
