<quotes>
[1] "We studied propylene production by the reaction of propane with oxygen in the presence of gaseous I2 which works as a gas-phase catalyst."
[2] "I2 is either introduced as a gas in the mixture of propane and oxygen, or it is produced when propane and oxygen come in contact with molten LiI or a mixture of molten LiI and LiOH."
[3] "High ODH yields to propylene were achieved by using iodine either generated in-situ from LiI or added as a gas to the propane and oxygen feed."
[4] "These two versions provided nearly equivalent yields, which were higher than those achieved by ODH on solid catalysts or by the industrial dehydrogenation processes in the absence of oxygen."
[5] "In the gas phase, propane conversion increases with increased oxygen concentration, and the propylene yield is highest when the propane to O2 ratio is 1:0.5, which corresponds to the stoichiometry of the reaction C3H8 + 1/2 O2  C3H6 + H2O."
[6] "When molten LiI or a mixture of molten LiI and LiOH is used as a source of I2, the reaction of oxygen with LiI is rapid and produces sufficient I2 so that addition of I2 to the feed does not increase the propylene yield."
[7] "We propose that the high rate of the reaction of oxygen with HI is the main reason for the high propylene yield. Rapid consumption of oxygen by HI prevents the oxidation of the hydrocarbons. Rapid consumption of HI by oxygen prevents the reaction of HI with propyl iodide to make propane and I2, as well as the reaction of HI with propylene to make propyl iodide."
[8] "In the present experiments O2 was introduced in the feed (with propane) and HI was produced as the reaction proceeded along the reactor. The ratio of oxygen to HI is too high in the first half of the reactor and too low in the second half. The reason for high alkene yields when molten LiI is used is likely to be gas-phase I2-mediated ODH using iodine sourced from the salt."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Various halogen-assisted methods for selectively dehydrogenating propane to propene include dehydrogenation with halogens, oxidative dehydrogenation, oxyhalogenation, and molten metal halide salt approaches. In the presence of gaseous I2, propane can be dehydrogenated efficiently. I2 can be introduced as a gas or produced in-situ from molten LiI or a mixture of molten LiI and LiOH. The method employing I2 generated in-situ from LiI or added as a gas to the propane and oxygen feed yielded high propylene production, surpassing those achieved by traditional solid catalysts or industrial dehydrogenation processes without oxygen. 

2. In oxidative dehydrogenation, propane conversion increases with the oxygen concentration. The optimal propane to O2 ratio for maximum propylene yield is 1:0.5, corresponding to the stoichiometry of the reaction C3H8 + 1/2 O2 → C3H6 + H2O.

3. When using molten LiI or a mixture of molten LiI and LiOH as a source of I2, the rapid reaction of oxygen with LiI produces sufficient I2. Adding I2 to the feed does not enhance propylene yield, suggesting that the high yield is primarily attributed to the swift consumption of oxygen by HI, which prevents hydrocarbon oxidation and the HI reactions with propyl iodide and propylene.

4. In the process, oxygen was introduced into the feed along with propane, while HI was generated during the reaction. The oxygen to HI ratio was too high in the initial phase and insufficient in the latter phase of the reactor. The reason for the high alkene yields when using molten LiI is attributed to the gas-phase I2-mediated oxidative dehydrogenation utilizing iodine sourced from the salt.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 不同的卤素辅助方法用于选择性地将丙烷脱氢为丙烯，包括卤素脱氢、氧化脱氢、氧卤化以及熔融金属卤化盐方法。在碘蒸气的存在下，可以高效地进行丙烷脱氢。碘可以作为气体引入或从熔融锂碘或熔融锂碘与锂氢氧化物混合物中产生。通过在丙烷和氧气流中添加来自锂碘产生的碘或作为气体添加到流中的碘的方法，实现了高丙烯生产，这超过了传统固体催化剂或无氧气的工业脱氢过程的产量。

2. 在氧化脱氢中，随着氧气浓度的增加，丙烷转化率提高。最优的丙烷与氧气摩尔比为1:0.5，对应于反应C3H8 + 1/2 O2 → C3H6 + H2O的化学计量。

3. 当使用熔融锂碘或熔融锂碘与锂氢氧化物混合物作为碘源时，氧气与锂碘的快速反应产生足够的碘。向流体中添加碘不会增加丙烯产量，表明高产率主要归因于氧气迅速消耗HI，从而阻止烃类氧化以及HI与丙基碘和丙烯的反应。

4. 在过程中，氧气与丙烷一起引入流体中，同时生成HI。氧气与HI的比例在反应器的初始阶段过高，在后期阶段过低。使用熔融锂碘时获得高烯烃产率的原因归因于气体相碘介导的氧化脱氢，利用从盐中产生的碘。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
