I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


5.2 In Terms of Propane and Isobutane Dehydrogenation Performance
Given that a large variety of catalysts are active in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of C2C4 paraffins, as documented in Tables 39, a comprehensive comparison of the activity and stability of these catalysts is desirable, particularly because said comparison stands to reveal qualitative differences between various formulations. We have attempted this comparison focusing on three performance criteria, olefin yield (obtained at the start of the experiment), stability (expressed as the deactivation rate), and the space velocity at which the first two criteria were measured (expressed as WHSV). In this approach, the effects of various factors, such as pressure, temperature, preparation method, promoter, and catalyst support, are not considered. The reasons to ignore these effects include the fact that this information is missing in many articles (pressure being a notable example), the absence of a clear trend (as tends to be the case with temperature), and an excessively large variance within a single variable to allow a meaningful comparison (catalyst preparation being an instance of such a variable). It is important to note that catalysts were only included in this comparison if the space velocity, deactivation rate, and initial yield could be determined from the information provided in the original source. Also of note is the fact that the performance criteria compared were measured during propane or isobutane dehydrogenation, which are the reactions that have been researched most intensively.
In Figure 31, the yields of propylene and isobutene are plotted versus the deactivation rate of Pt-, CrOx-, GaOx-, and In2O3-based catalysts. Moreover, in the plot showing PDH results, the data points representing the catalytic performance of different catalyst types are grouped around similar values, the best initial yields being similar for Pt and CrOx and slightly higher for GaOx. Additionally, PDH results show that the different catalyst types deactivate at different speeds, with Pt being particularly stable, CrOx deactivating rapidly, and other systems deactivating even faster. Another interesting observation stemming from the PDH data is that within each type of catalyst high yields often coincide with relatively low deactivation rates, which is counterintuitive. Although considerably fewer data points are available for the isobutane dehydrogenation, the Pt-based catalysts also display a superior stability as compared to the metal oxides at similar yields. Notably, the VOx-based catalysts show excellent yields (40%), albeit they deactivate very fast.
Space velocity is another important factor that has been considered to compare the performance of different dehydrogenation catalysts. In Figure 32 are plotted propylene and isobutene yield aagainst the weight hourly space velocity (WHSV).Taking into account that Pt-based catalysts typically have low loadings (<1 wt %), whereas GaOx- and CrOx-based catalysts generally have loadings between 5 and 20 wt %, it is clear that on a weight basis Pt represents the most active formulation in PDH. This is confirmed when the average specific activities from Tables 39 are compared to one another. Indeed, for the dehydrogenation of propane on Pt-based catalysts, the average specific activity is 2.86 × 101 s1, which is considerably higher than the average specific activities over CrOx and GaOx, which are 7.49 × 105 and 8.17 × 105, respectively. In Scheme 6, the proposed active sites for propane dehydrogenation of these three catalysts are shown. In the case of platinum-based catalysts, any Pt0 atom located at the surface is believed to catalyze the reaction, while in CrOx- and GaOx-based catalysts Cr3+ and Ga3+ must be coordinatively unsaturated to display catalytic activity. This similarity between the active sites of Ga- and Cr-containing catalyst, and their difference to Pt, may therefore explain the relative specific activity values of these formulations.However, it should be noted that specific activity values are a very rough approximation of the real TOF of these catalysts. In case of Pt catalysts, all Pt (not only the surface Pt) is taken into account in our specific activity calculation, and additional errors are introduced for the metal oxides. In the case of CrOx catalysts, only coordinatively unsaturated Cr3+ species are active in the dehydrogenation reaction, yet our specific activity calculations take into account a considerable amount of species that are either coordinatively saturated or in a different oxidation state. Although Ga3+ is likely the only stable species during the dehydrogenation reaction, our specific activity calculation involving GaOx catalysts considers a significant amount of the Ga that is either present in the framework of the support or incorporated in larger Ga2O3 crystallites. Nevertheless, the difference between the specific activity calculated for Pt and the metal oxides is in the range of 4 orders of magnitude, which cannot be explained solely by the errors introduced in our calculations. For the dehydrogenation of isobutane, the same differences of specific activities between the Pt and metal oxide catalysts are observed.It is important to mention that catalysts tend to deactivate faster when higher space velocities are used. Notably, metal oxide-based catalysts deactivate faster than the Pt-based formulations, despite the fact that the latter are commonly used at higher space velocities, which highlights the remarkable stability of Pt catalysts.The differences in the specific activity values described previously could be explained by comparing the activation energies calculated by DFT methods previously discussed in section 4. In these calculations, the energy barrier for the rate limiting step on PtSn system is lower (109 kJ mol1) than in the CrOx and GaOx catalysts (161 and 163 kJ mol1, respectively). Ea affects the reaction rate, as described by the Arrhenius equation:where k is the reaction rate constant, A is the pre-exponential factor, R is the gas constant, and T is the temperature. By calculating k/A at a temperature of 600 C and assuming A is comparable for the three systems considered, the rate constant is 103 times higher for the PtSn catalysts as compared to the metal oxide catalysts. The difference in the calculated specific activity values for propane dehydrogenation on the Pt and metal oxide catalysts (Tables 3, 4, and 7) is approximately 104, as is shown in Scheme 6. The higher activity observed for the Pt-based catalysts may therefore be explained by the significantly lower energy barrier of the rate-limiting step. However, care must be taken when comparing these Ea values, as the methods used for obtaining these are not identical. Furthermore, these simulations assume model surfaces that do not resemble real catalyst systems, and therefore the results are not necessarily representative of the experimentally observed reaction rates. Nevertheless, these combined theoretical and experimental data are very encouraging and highlight the need for more extensive studies on the reaction rate on Pt- and metal oxide-based dehydrogenation catalysts.To summarize, although metal oxide-based catalysts can afford yields comparable to those obtained using Pt-based formulations, the latter can operate at higher space velocities and exhibit lower deactivation rates than metal oxide catalysts.Scheme 6 Scheme 6. Proposed Active Sites for the Pt-, CrOx-, and GaOx-Based Propane Dehydrogenation Catalysts, the Order of Magnitude of Their Calculated Specific Activity, and the Reaction Rates (k/A) Calculated by DFT


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the described methodology for comparing catalyst performance in nonoxidative dehydrogenation of C2-C4 paraffins, particularly propane and isobutane reactions, address the challenges of evaluating diverse catalysts, and what are the implications of focusing on specific performance criteria (olefin yield, stability, and space velocity) while excluding other factors for understanding catalyst behavior and the overall comparative analysis?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 