<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The primary causes of metal oxide catalyst deactivation in oxidative dehydrogenation processes, focusing on Cr-based and VOx catalysts, are not explicitly discussed in the literature. However, it is mentioned that the VOx/SiO2 catalysts are rapidly deactivated with increasing VOx content above the theoretical monolayer coverage. The catalytic activity did not increase with reaction temperature, while the selectivity to propylene decreased at the expense of propane cracking reactions. Moreover, the S2 and S3 catalysts that showed higher conversion for CO2 ODH of propane tended to be deactivated rather quickly with time on stream. Also, deactivation of the S2 and S3 catalysts was accelerated at a higher reaction temperature of 600 C, as propane conversion decreased by about 50% after 1 h under catalytic reaction conditions. These results suggested that a more limited extent of surface reoxidation with increased VOx coverage may be responsible for the decreased ODH activity of VOx/SiO2 catalysts. The effectiveness, temperature requirements, and impact on catalytic performance of various regeneration methods such as reoxidation with air, CO2, or O2 are not discussed in the literature. The potential of CO2 addition for mitigating overoxidation in VOx-catalyzed reactions is not explicitly discussed, but it is mentioned that CO2 is a mild oxidant that can perform oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of lower alkanes (C2C4) to the corresponding olefins.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在氧化脱氢过程中，Cr基和VOx催化剂失活的主要原因在文献中没有明确讨论。然而，文献中提到，当VOx含量超过理论单层覆盖度时，VOx/SiO2催化剂会迅速失活。催化活性并没有随着反应温度的升高而增加，而丙烯的选择性却以丙烷裂解反应为代价而降低。此外，S2和S3催化剂在CO2 ODH丙烷转化中显示出较高的转化率，但随着时间的推移，它们的失活速度相当快。此外，S2和S3催化剂的失活在600°C的较高反应温度下加速，因为在催化反应条件下1小时后，丙烷转化率下降了约50%。这些结果表明，随着VOx覆盖度的增加，表面再氧化的程度可能更有限，这可能是VOx/SiO2催化剂ODH活性降低的原因。各种再生方法（如用空气、CO2或O2再氧化）的有效性、温度要求和对催化性能的影响在文献中没有讨论。CO2添加在VOx催化反应中缓解过度氧化的潜力在文献中没有明确讨论，但文献中提到CO2是一种温和的氧化剂，可以将较低的烷烃（C2C4）氧化脱氢（ODH）为相应的烯烃。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
