<quotes>
[1] "The nature of active chromium species in Cr-catalysts for dehydrogenation of propane: New insights by a comprehensive spectroscopic study Abstract Dehydrogenation of propane (DHP) was studied over a series of xCrSBA-15 and xCrAl2O3 catalysts, prepared by incipient wetness impregnation, to gain a better understanding of the nature and distribution of Cr species and their catalytic function."
[2] "To this end, the catalysts were characterized by N2-physisorption, X-ray diffraction (XRD), UV-Raman spectroscopy, scanning transmission electron microscopyenergy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (STEMEDXS) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XANES and EXAFS)."
[3] "Remarkably, γ-Al2O3 contains mainly oligomers with different degrees of nuclearity and a fraction of isolated species but no Cr2O3 particles."
[4] "Interestingly, among xCrAl2O3, the catalysts dominated by oligomeric species show the highest activity, indicating the important role of the species in the reaction."
[5] "The intrinsic activity of these isolated Cr species is higher than those observed on γ-Al2O3 (1 wt% Cr)."
[6] "For xCrSBA-15, isolated Cr(III) sites with coordination number greater than four are more active, selective and stable than Cr sites on the surface of crystalline Cr2O3."
[7] "In contrast, for xCrAl2O3, oligomeric Cr species are more active and selective than the isolated Cr sites."
[8] "It is reasonable to say that active DHP sites are generated during the reaction, the origin of which are Cr(VI) species in coordination reflected by the pre-edge peak in XANES."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The study focuses on comprehensively analyzing the nature and distribution of chromium species in xCrSBA-15 and xCrAl2O3 catalysts for dehydrogenation of propane. The catalysts were characterized using various techniques including N2-physisorption, X-ray diffraction, UV-Raman spectroscopy, scanning transmission electron microscopy, and X-ray absorption spectroscopy.

2. γ-Al2O3 supports predominantly oligomeric chromium species with varying degrees of nuclearity and a fraction of isolated species, but no Cr2O3 particles are formed.

3. The catalysts with oligomeric chromium species dominate and exhibit the highest activity, highlighting the crucial role of these species in the reaction.

4. The intrinsic activity of isolated chromium species on xCrAl2O3 is notably higher than those on γ-Al2O3 with a 1 wt% chromium content.

5. Isolated chromium(III) sites with a coordination number greater than four are found to be more active, selective, and stable than those on the surface of crystalline Cr2O3 in xCrSBA-15.

6. In contrast, oligomeric chromium species on xCrAl2O3 are found to be more active and selective than isolated chromium species.

7. The active dehydrogenation sites are believed to originate from chromium(VI) species in coordination, as indicated by the pre-edge peak in XANES.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 研究专注于全面分析xCrSBA-15和xCrAl2O3催化剂中丙烷脱氢过程中铬物种的性质和分布。使用了包括氮气吸附、X射线衍射、紫外拉曼光谱、扫描透射电子显微镜和X射线吸收光谱在内的多种技术进行表征。

2. γ-Al2O3支持主要包含具有不同核度的寡聚型铬物种以及一小部分孤立物种，但未形成Cr2O3颗粒。

3. 主导寡聚型铬物种的催化剂表现出最高的活性，凸显了这些物种在反应中的关键作用。

4. xCrAl2O3上1 wt%铬含量的孤立铬物种的内在活性高于γ-Al2O3上的同类物种。

5. 在xCrSBA-15中，发现协调数大于四的孤立铬(III)位点比表面的铬2O3颗粒位点更活跃、选择性和稳定。

6. 相反，在xCrAl2O3中，发现寡聚型铬物种比孤立铬物种更活跃和选择性。

7. 活性的脱氢位点被认为来源于在XANES中的预边峰所指示的铬(VI)物种在配位。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
