<quotes>
The oxidation of HOL (Scheme 1) was performed in a semi- batch liquid phase reactor at 50 C under a constant air pressure of 40 psi. The maximum rates obtained over each catalyst are reported in Table 1. A high selectivity to HAL of approximately 90% (Table 1) was obtained on the uncoated catalyst, consistent with previous reports for similar reactions [3]. Modification of the catalyst by AT did not appreciably affect selectivity, whereas the C18 modifier lowered the selectivity to 80%.

Fig. 1 summarizes the conversion profile over the uncoated and modified Pd/Al2O3 catalysts over the course of a 2-h reaction. The kinetic features were strongly influenced by thiolate modification of the surface. On the uncoated surface, a high initial rate was observed, followed by a rapid deactivation. In fact, almost half of the HOL consumed during the 2-h reaction reacted within the first 5 min. While the AT-coated catalyst exhibited a lower initial rate, presumably due to site blocking by the thiolate ligand, deactivation was not as pronounced, resulting in a higher total conversion after 2 h. Similarly, the C18-coated catalyst also effectively suppressed the deactivation and increased the reaction rate over the native catalyst. 

Previous studies suggested that the deactivation of the Pd catalyst may be due to strongly adsorbed species generated by unsaturated aldehydes.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The research demonstrates that thiolate SAMs can promote the selective alcohol oxidation of trans-2-hexen-1-ol (HOL) on supported palladium catalysts. The oxidation product, trans-2-hexenal (HAL), forms surface residues on the native Pd/Al2O3 catalyst that poison the catalyst. Thiolate modification limits HAL poisoning, presumably by isolating active sites. On the AT-coated surface, decarbonylation is the major side reaction of HAL, forming smaller carbonaceous fragments that block fewer active sites and are more easily removed from the surface. The C18-coated surface hinders decarbonylation and the production of a HAL-derived surface poison attributed to a surface dimer, exhibiting the highest activity. Therefore, the thiolate modifier improves catalytic activity and helps prevent deactivation by suppressing side reactions of HAL and thus the formation of poisoning species. Compared to conventional metallic promoters, the thiolate modifiers offer a more straightforward platform for controlling the near-surface environment, making them an attractive potential modifier for Pt-group catalysts in low-temperature aerobic alcohol oxidation.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
研究表明，硫醇自组装单层可以在支持的钯催化剂上促进选择性醇氧化。氧化产物反式-2-己烯醛（HAL）在原始Pd/Al2O3催化剂上形成表面残留物，从而毒害催化剂。硫醇修饰限制了HAL中毒，可能通过隔离活性位点实现。在AT涂层表面上，HAL的主要副反应是脱羰基化，形成更小的碳氢化合物碎片，这些碎片阻塞较少的活性位点，并且更容易从表面移除。C18涂层表面阻碍了脱羰基化和由不同前体产生的HAL衍生表面毒剂的产生，表现为最高的活性。因此，硫醇修饰可以提高催化活性并帮助防止由于抑制HAL侧反应以及由此形成的中毒物种而造成的失活。与传统的金属催化剂相比，硫醇修饰提供了一个更直接的平台来控制表面附近环境，使其成为低温度下氧气气氛中醇氧化Pt族催化剂的有效修饰剂。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
